Zhang, X., et al. (2016). "Social amoebae trap and kill bacteria by casting DNA nets." Nat Commun 7: 10938.
	Extracellular traps (ETs) from neutrophils are reticulated nets of DNA decorated with anti-microbial granules, and are capable of trapping and killing extracellular pathogens. Various phagocytes of mammals and invertebrates produce ETs, however, the evolutionary history of this DNA-based host defence strategy is unclear. Here we report that Sentinel (S) cells of the multicellular slug stage of the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum produce ETs upon stimulation with bacteria or lipopolysaccharide in a reactive oxygen species-dependent manner. The production of ETs by S cells requires a Toll/Interleukin-1 receptor domain-containing protein TirA and reactive oxygen species-generating NADPH oxidases. Disruption of these genes results in decreased clearance of bacterial infections. Our results demonstrate that D. discoideum is a powerful model organism to study the evolution and conservation of mechanisms of cell-intrinsic immunity, and suggest that the origin of DNA-based ETs as an innate immune defence predates the emergence of metazoans.

Umeki, N., et al. (2016). "Cofilin-induced cooperative conformational changes of actin subunits revealed using cofilin-actin fusion protein." Sci Rep 6: 20406.
	To investigate cooperative conformational changes of actin filaments induced by cofilin binding, we engineered a fusion protein made of Dictyostelium cofilin and actin. The filaments of the fusion protein were functionally similar to actin filaments bound with cofilin in that they did not bind rhodamine-phalloidin, had quenched fluorescence of pyrene attached to Cys374 and showed enhanced susceptibility of the DNase loop to cleavage by subtilisin. Quantitative analyses of copolymers made of different ratios of the fusion protein and control actin further demonstrated that the fusion protein affects the structure of multiple neighboring actin subunits in copolymers. Based on these and other recent related studies, we propose a mechanism by which conformational changes induced by cofilin binding is propagated unidirectionally to the pointed ends of the filaments, and cofilin clusters grow unidirectionally to the pointed ends following this path. Interestingly, the fusion protein was unable to copolymerize with control actin at pH 6.5 and low ionic strength, suggesting that the structural difference between the actin moiety in the fusion protein and control actin is pH-sensitive.

Tikhonenko, I., et al. (2016). "Organization of microtubule assemblies in Dictyostelium syncytia depends on the microtubule crosslinker, Ase1." Cell Mol Life Sci 73(4): 859-868.
	It has long been known that the interphase microtubule (MT) array is a key cellular scaffold that provides structural support and directs organelle trafficking in eukaryotic cells. Although in animal cells, a combination of centrosome nucleating properties and polymer dynamics at the distal microtubule ends is generally sufficient to establish a radial, polar array of MTs, little is known about how effector proteins (motors and crosslinkers) are coordinated to produce the diversity of interphase MT array morphologies found in nature. This diversity is particularly important in multinucleated environments where multiple MT arrays must coexist and function. We initiate here a study to address the higher ordered coordination of multiple, independent MT arrays in a common cytoplasm. Deletion of a MT crosslinker of the MAP65/Ase1/PRC1 family disrupts the spatial integrity of multiple arrays in Dictyostelium discoideum, reducing the distance between centrosomes and increasing the intermingling of MTs with opposite polarity. This result, coupled with previous dynein disruptions suggest a robust mechanism by which interphase MT arrays can utilize motors and crosslinkers to sense their position and minimize overlap in a common cytoplasm.

Strassmann, J. E. (2016). "Kin Discrimination in Dictyostelium Social Amoebae." J Eukaryot Microbiol.
	Evolved cooperation is stable only when the benefactor is compensated, either directly or through its relatives. Social amoebae cooperate by forming a mobile multicellular body in which about 20% of participants ultimately dies to form a stalk. This benefits the remaining individuals that become hardy spores at the top of the stalk, together making up the fruiting body. In studied species with stalked migration, P. violaceum, D. purpureum, and D. giganteum, sorting based on clone identity occurs in laboratory mixes, maintaining high relatedness within the fruiting bodies. D. discoideum has unstalked migration where cell fate is not fixed until the slug forms a fruiting body. Laboratory mixes show some degree of both spatial and genotype-based sorting, yet most laboratory fruiting bodies remain chimeric. However, wild fruiting bodies are made up mostly of clonemates. A genetic mechanism for sorting is likely to be cell adhesion genes tgrB1 and tgrC1, which bind to each other. They are highly variable, as expected for a kin discrimination gene. It is a puzzle that these genes do not cause stronger discrimination between mixed wild clones, but laboratory conditions or strong sorting early in the social stage diminished by later slug fusion could be explanations. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

Smith, J., et al. (2016). "Fine-scale spatial ecology drives kin selection relatedness among cooperating amoebae." Evolution.
	Cooperation among microbes is important for traits as diverse as antibiotic resistance, pathogen virulence, and sporulation. The evolutionary stability of cooperation against "cheater" mutants depends critically on the extent to which microbes interact with genetically similar individuals. The causes of this genetic social structure in natural microbial systems, however, are unknown. Here we show that social structure among cooperative Dictyostelium amoebae is driven by the population ecology of colonization, growth, and dispersal acting at spatial scales as small as fruiting bodies themselves. Despite the fact that amoebae disperse while grazing, all it takes to create substantial genetic clonality within multicellular fruiting bodies is a few millimeters distance between the cells colonizing a feeding site. Even adjacent fruiting bodies can consist of different genotypes. Soil populations of amoebae are sparse and patchily distributed at millimeter scales. The fine-scale spatial structure of cells and genotypes can thus account for the otherwise unexplained high genetic uniformity of spores in fruiting bodies from natural substrates. These results show how a full understanding of microbial cooperation requires understanding ecology and social structure at the small spatial scales microbes themselves experience. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

Senoo, H., et al. (2016). "A GPCR Handles Bacterial Sensing in Chemotaxis and Phagocytosis." Dev Cell 36(4): 354-356.
	In this issue of Developmental Cell, Pan et al. (2016) identified in cells of the social amoeba Dictyostelium a G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) that recognizes a chemoattractant secreted by bacteria. This work uncovers a mechanism by which a single GPCR mediates pseudopod extension during cell migration and bacterial engulfment.

Rodriguez-Centeno, J. and L. Sastre (2016). "Biological Activity of the Alternative Promoters of the Dictyostelium discoideum Adenylyl Cyclase A Gene." PLoS One 11(2): e0148533.
	Amoebae of the Dictyostelium discoideum species form multicellular fruiting bodies upon starvation. Cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) is used as intercellular signalling molecule in cell-aggregation, cell differentiation and morphogenesis. This molecule is synthesized by three adenylyl cyclases, one of which, ACA, is required for cell aggregation. The gene coding for ACA (acaA) is transcribed from three different promoters that are active at different developmental stages. Promoter 1 is active during cell-aggregation, promoters 2 and 3 are active in prespore and prestalk tip cells at subsequent developmental stages. The biological relevance of acaA expression from each of the promoters has been studied in this article. The acaA gene was expressed in acaA-mutant cells, that do not aggregate, under control of each of the three acaA promoters. acaA expression under promoter 1 control induced cell aggregation although subsequent development was delayed, very small fruiting bodies were formed and cell differentiation genes were expressed at very low levels. Promoter 2-driven acaA expression induced the formation of small aggregates and small fruiting bodies were formed at the same time as in wild-type strains and differentiation genes were also expressed at lower levels. Expression of acaA from promoter 3 induced aggregates and fruiting bodies formation and their size and the expression of differentiation genes were more similar to that of wild-type cells. Expression of acaA from promoters 1 and 2 in AX4 cells also produced smaller structures. In conclusion, the expression of acaA under control of the aggregation-specific Promoter 1 is able to induce cell aggregation in acaA-mutant strains. Expression from promoters 2 and 3 also recovered aggregation and development although promoter 3 induced a more complete recovery of fruiting body formation.

Rivero, F. and H. Xiong (2016). "Rho Signaling in Dictyostelium discoideum." Int Rev Cell Mol Biol 322: 61-181.
	Small GTPases of the Rho family are ubiquitous molecular switches involved in the regulation of most actin cytoskeleton dependent processes and many other processes not directly linked to actin. D. discoideum is a well-established model organism for studies of the actin cytoskeleton and its regulation by signal transduction pathways. D. discoideum is equipped with a complex repertoire of Rho signaling components, with 20 Rho GTPases, more than 100 regulators (including exchange factors, GTPase activating proteins and guanine nucleotide dissociation inhibitors), and nearly 80 effectors or components of effector complexes. In this review we examine the knowledge accumulated to date about proteins involved in Rho-regulated signaling pathways in D. discoideum, with an emphasis on functional studies. We integrate the information about individual components into defined signaling pathways, with a focus on three extensively investigated processes: chemotaxis, vesicle trafficking, and cytokinesis.

Rahman, K., et al. (2016). "The E3 Ubiquitin Ligase Adaptor Protein Skp1 Is Glycosylated by an Evolutionarily Conserved Pathway That Regulates Protist Growth and Development." J Biol Chem 291(9): 4268-4280.
	Toxoplasma gondii is a protist parasite of warm-blooded animals that causes disease by proliferating intracellularly in muscle and the central nervous system. Previous studies showed that a prolyl 4-hydroxylase related to animal HIFalpha prolyl hydroxylases is required for optimal parasite proliferation, especially at low O2. We also observed that Pro-154 of Skp1, a subunit of the Skp1/Cullin-1/F-box protein (SCF)-class of E3-ubiquitin ligases, is a natural substrate of this enzyme. In an unrelated protist, Dictyostelium discoideum, Skp1 hydroxyproline is modified by five sugars via the action of three glycosyltransferases, Gnt1, PgtA, and AgtA, which are required for optimal O2-dependent development. We show here that TgSkp1 hydroxyproline is modified by a similar pentasaccharide, based on mass spectrometry, and that assembly of the first three sugars is dependent on Toxoplasma homologs of Gnt1 and PgtA. Reconstitution of the glycosyltransferase reactions in extracts with radioactive sugar nucleotide substrates and appropriate Skp1 glycoforms, followed by chromatographic analysis of acid hydrolysates of the reaction products, confirmed the predicted sugar identities as GlcNAc, Gal, and Fuc. Disruptions of gnt1 or pgtA resulted in decreased parasite growth. Off target effects were excluded based on restoration of the normal glycan chain and growth upon genetic complementation. By analogy to Dictyostelium Skp1, the mechanism may involve regulation of assembly of the SCF complex. Understanding the mechanism of Toxoplasma Skp1 glycosylation is expected to help develop it as a drug target for control of the pathogen, as the glycosyltransferases are absent from mammalian hosts.

Plak, K., et al. (2016). "Direct Interaction between TalinB and Rap1 is necessary for adhesion of Dictyostelium cells." BMC Cell Biol 17(1): 1.
	BACKGROUND: The small G-protein Rap1 is an important regulator of cellular adhesion in Dictyostelium, however so far the downstream signalling pathways for cell adhesion are not completely characterized. In mammalian cells talin is crucial for adhesion and Rap1 was shown to be a key regulator of talin signalling. RESULTS: In a proteomic screen we identified TalinB as a potential Rap1 effector in Dictyostelium. In subsequent pull-down experiments we demonstrate that the Ras association (RA) domain of TalinB interacts specifically with active Rap1. Studies with a mutated RA domain revealed that the RA domain is essential for TalinB-Rap1 interaction, and that this interaction contributes to cell-substrate adhesion during single-celled growth and is crucial for cell-cell adhesion during multicellular development. CONCLUSIONS: Dictyostelium Rap1 directly binds to TalinB via the conserved RA domain. This interaction is critical for adhesion, which becomes essential for high adhesive force demanding processes, like morphogenesis during multicellular development of Dictyostelium. In mammalian cells the established Rap1-talin interaction is indirect and acts through the scaffold protein - RIAM. Interestingly, direct binding of mouse Rap1 to the RA domain of Talin1 has recently been demonstrated.

Phanse, S., et al. (2016). "Proteome-wide dataset supporting the study of ancient metazoan macromolecular complexes." Data Brief 6: 715-721.
	Our analysis examines the conservation of multiprotein complexes among metazoa through use of high resolution biochemical fractionation and precision mass spectrometry applied to soluble cell extracts from 5 representative model organisms Caenorhabditis elegans, Drosophila melanogaster, Mus musculus, Strongylocentrotus purpuratus, and Homo sapiens. The interaction network obtained from the data was validated globally in 4 distant species (Xenopus laevis, Nematostella vectensis, Dictyostelium discoideum, Saccharomyces cerevisiae) and locally by targeted affinity-purification experiments. Here we provide details of our massive set of supporting biochemical fractionation data available via ProteomeXchange (PXD002319-PXD002328), PPIs via BioGRID (185267); and interaction network projections via (http://metazoa.med.utoronto.ca) made fully accessible to allow further exploration. The datasets here are related to the research article on metazoan macromolecular complexes in Nature [1].

Perinet, S., et al. (2016). "Molybdate transporter ModABC is important for Pseudomonas aeruginosa chronic lung infection." BMC Res Notes 9(1): 23.
	BACKGROUND: Mechanisms underlying the success of Pseudomonas aeruginosa in chronic lung infection among cystic fibrosis (CF) patients are poorly defined. The modA gene was previously linked to in vivo competitiveness of P. aeruginosa by a genetic screening in the rat lung. This gene encodes a subunit of transporter ModABC, which is responsible for extracellular uptake of molybdate. This compound is essential for molybdoenzymes, including nitrate reductases. Since anaerobic growth conditions are known to occur during CF chronic lung infection, inactivation of a molybdate transporter could inhibit proliferation through the inactivation of denitrification enzymes. Hence, we performed phenotypic characterization of a modA mutant strain obtained by signature-tagged mutagenesis (STM_modA) and assessed its virulence in vivo with two host models. RESULTS: The STM_modA mutant was in fact defective for anaerobic growth and unable to use nitrates in the growth medium for anaerobic respiration. Bacterial growth and nitrate usage were restored when the medium was supplemented with molybdate. Most significantly, the mutant strain showed reduced virulence compared to wild-type strain PAO1 according to a competitive index in the rat model of chronic lung infection and a predation assay with Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae. As the latter took place in aerobic conditions, the in vivo impact of the mutation in modA appears to extend beyond its effect on anaerobic growth. CONCLUSIONS: These results support the modABC-encoded transporter as important for the pathogenesis of P. aeruginosa, and suggest that enzymatic machinery implicated in anaerobic growth during chronic lung infection in CF merits further investigation as a potential target for therapeutic intervention.

Paz, Y. M.-C. G. and A. Espinosa (2016). "Kin Discrimination in Protists: From Many Cells to Single Cells and Backwards." J Eukaryot Microbiol.
	During four decades (1960s to 1990s), the conceptualization and experimental design of studies in kin recognition relied on work with multicellular eukaryotes, particularly Unikonta (including invertebrates and vertebrates) and some Bikonta (including plants). This pioneering research had an animal behavior approach. During the 2000s, work on taxa-, clone- and kin-discrimination and recognition in protists produced genetic and molecular evidence that unicellular organisms (e.g. Saccharomyces, Dictyostelium, Polysphondylium, Tetrahymena, Entamoeba and Plasmodium) could distinguish between same (self or clone) and different (diverse clones), as well as among conspecifics of close or distant genetic relatedness. Here we discuss some of the research on the genetics of kin discrimination/recognition and highlight the scientific progress made by switching emphasis from investigating multicellular to unicellular systems (and backwards). We document how studies with protists are helping us to understand the microscopic, cellular origins and evolution of the mechanisms of kin discrimination/recognition and their significance for the advent of multicellularity. We emphasize that because protists are among the most ancient organisms on Earth, belong to multiple taxonomic groups and occupy all environments, they can be central to reexamining traditional hypotheses in the field of kin recognition, reformulating concepts, and generating new knowledge. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

Paquet, V. E. and S. J. Charette (2016). "Amoeba-resisting bacteria found in multilamellar bodies secreted by Dictyostelium discoideum: social amoebae can also package bacteria." FEMS Microbiol Ecol 92(3).
	Many bacteria can resist phagocytic digestion by various protozoa. Some of these bacteria (all human pathogens) are known to be packaged in multilamellar bodies produced in the phagocytic pathway of the protozoa and that are secreted into the extracellular milieu. Packaged bacteria are protected from harsh conditions, and the packaging process is suspected to promote bacterial persistence in the environment. To date, only a limited number of protozoa, belonging to free-living amoebae and ciliates, have been shown to perform bacteria packaging. It is still unknown if social amoebae can do bacteria packaging. The link between the capacity of 136 bacterial isolates to resist the grazing of the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum and to be packaged by this amoeba was investigated in the present study. The 45 bacterial isolates displaying a resisting phenotype were tested for their capacity to be packaged. A total of seven isolates from Cupriavidus, Micrococcus, Microbacterium and Rathayibacter genera seemed to be packaged and secreted by D. discoideum based on immunofluorescence results. Electron microscopy confirmed that the Cupriavidus and Rathayibacter isolates were formally packaged. These results show that social amoebae can package some bacteria from the environment revealing a new aspect of microbial ecology.

Pan, M., et al. (2016). "Identification of a Chemoattractant G-Protein-Coupled Receptor for Folic Acid that Controls Both Chemotaxis and Phagocytosis." Dev Cell 36(4): 428-439.
	Eukaryotic phagocytes search and destroy invading microorganisms via chemotaxis and phagocytosis. The social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum is a professional phagocyte that chases bacteria through chemotaxis and engulfs them as food via phagocytosis. G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are known for detecting chemoattractants and directing cell migration, but their roles in phagocytosis are not clear. Here, we developed a quantitative phosphoproteomic technique to discover signaling components. Using this approach, we discovered the long sought after folic acid receptor, fAR1, in D. discoideum. We showed that the seven-transmembrane receptor fAR1 is required for folic acid-mediated signaling events. Significantly, we discovered that fAR1 is essential for both chemotaxis and phagocytosis of bacteria, thereby representing a chemoattractant GPCR that mediates not only chasing but also ingesting bacteria. We revealed that a phagocyte is able to internalize particles via a chemoattractant-mediated engulfment process. We propose that mammalian phagocytes may also use this mechanism to engulf and ingest bacterial pathogens.

Murata, C., et al. (2016). "Synthesis and SAR of 4-methyl-5-pentylbenzene-1,3-diol (MPBD), produced by Dictyostelium discoideum." Bioorg Med Chem Lett 26(5): 1428-1433.
	4-Methyl-5-pentylbenzene-1,3-diol (MPBD) is a secondary metabolite of SteelyA polyketide synthase, which controls cell aggregation and spore maturation of Dictyostelium discoideum. In this study, chemical synthesis of MPBD and its derivatives was achieved. Structure-activity relationship (SAR) studies for antimicrobial activities against Escherichia coli and Bacillus subtilis were also conducted.

Matthias, J., et al. (2016). "The two Dictyostelium autophagy eight proteins, ATG8a and ATG8b, associate with the autophagosome in succession." Eur J Cell Biol 95(1): 15-25.
	Autophagy is an ancient cellular pathway that is conserved from yeast to man. It contributes to many physiological and pathological processes and plays a major role in the degradation of proteins and/or organelles in response to starvation and stress. In the autophagic process cytosolic material is captured into double membrane-bound vesicles, the autophagosomes. After fusion with lysosomes, the cargo is degraded in the generated autolysosomes and then recycled for further use. Autophagy 8 (ATG8, in mammals LC3), a well-established marker of autophagy, is covalently linked to phosphatidylethanolamine on the autophagic membrane during autophagosome formation. Bioinformatic analysis of the Dictyostelium genome revealed two atg8 genes which encode the ATG8a and ATG8b paralogs. They are with around 14kDa similar in size, 54 % identical to one another and more closely related to the corresponding proteins in fungi and plants than in animals. For ATG8a we found a strong up-regulation throughout the 24h developmental time course while ATG8b expression was highest in vegetative cells followed by a moderate reduction during early development. Confocal microscopy of fluorescently tagged ATG8a and ATG8b in vegetative AX2 wild-type and in ATG9(-) cells showed that both proteins mainly co-localized on vesicular structures with a diameter above 500nm while those smaller than 500nm were predominantly positive for ATG8b. In ATG9(-) cells we found a strong increase in the relative abundance of ATG8a-positive large vesicular structures and of total ATG8b-positive structures per cell indicating autophagic flux problems in this mutant. We also found that vesicular structures positive for ATG8a and/or ATG8b were also positive for ubiquitin. Live cell imaging of AX2 and ATG9(-) cells co-expressing combinations of red and green tagged ATG8a, ATG8b or ATG9 revealed transient co localizations of these proteins. Our results suggest that ATG8b associates with nascent autophagosomes before ATG8a. We further find that the process of autophagosome formation in Dictyostelium is highly dynamic. We infer from our data that Dictyostelium ATG8a and ATG8b have distinct functions in autophagosome formation and that ATG8b is the functional orthologue of the mammalian LC3 subfamily and ATG8a of the GABARAP subfamily.

Marquez Lopez, J., et al. (2016). "Systematic evaluation of buffer influences on the development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev Genes Evol 226(1): 27-35.
	Development and cell differentiation are key features of the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum. Already at early developmental stages, the gene expression profile changes in the amoebae to make the cells aggregation competent. In the laboratory, development starts when the cells are washed free of nutrients. For this purpose, various non-nutrient buffers are used in different laboratories. However, to date, it is not clear if different buffers have different influences on the development of D. discoideum. Therefore, we investigated systematically the influence of six widely used buffers on the development of D. discoideum. Investigation was done at the phenotypical, biochemical, and molecular level. The results show that some of the investigated buffers show clear differences in the phenotypical outcome of the developmental cycle, at a biochemical level as measured in the response to cAMP, and/or at a molecular level as measured in the expression of early developmental marker genes. According to our results buffer compositions should be considered carefully for all developmental experiments with D. discoideum, especially when gene expression will be investigated.

Magill, D. J., et al. (2016). "On the interaction between human IQGAP1 and actin." Protein Pept Lett.
	IQGAPs are eukaryotic proteins which integrate signals from various sources and pass these on the cytoskeleton. Understanding how they do this requires information on the interfaces between the proteins. Here, it is shown that the calponin homology domain of human IQGAP1 (CHD1) can be crosslinked with alpha-actin. The stoichiometry of the interaction was 1:1. A molecular model was built of the complex and associated bioinformatics analyses predicted that the interaction is likely to involve an electrostatic interaction between Lys-240 of alpha-actin and Glu-30 of CHD1. These residues are predicted to be accessible and are not involved in many intra-protein interactions; they are thus available for interaction with binding partners. They are both located in regions of the proteins which are predicted to be flexible and disordered; interactions between signalling molecules often involve flexible, disordered regions. The predicted binding region in CHD1 is well conserved in many eukaryotic IQGAP-like proteins. In some cases (e.g Dictyostelium discoideum and Saccharomyces cerevisiae) protein sequence conservation is weak, but molecular modelling reveals that a region of charged, polar residues in a flexible N-terminus is structurally well conserved. Therefore we conclude that the calponin homology domains of IQGAP1-like proteins interact initially through the electrostatic interaction identified here and that there may be subsequent conformational changes to form the final complex.

Livermore, T. M., et al. (2016). "Developmental accumulation of inorganic polyphosphate affects germination and energetic metabolism in Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 113(4): 996-1001.
	Inorganic polyphosphate (polyP) is composed of linear chains of phosphate groups linked by high-energy phosphoanhydride bonds. However, this simple, ubiquitous molecule remains poorly understood. The use of nonstandardized analytical methods has contributed to this lack of clarity. By using improved polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis we were able to visualize polyP extracted from Dictyostelium discoideum. We established that polyP is undetectable in cells lacking the polyphosphate kinase (DdPpk1). Generation of this ppk1 null strain revealed that polyP is important for the general fitness of the amoebae with the mutant strain displaying a substantial growth defect. We discovered an unprecedented accumulation of polyP during the developmental program, with polyP increasing more than 100-fold. The failure of ppk1 spores to accumulate polyP results in a germination defect. These phenotypes are underpinned by the ability of polyP to regulate basic energetic metabolism, demonstrated by a 2.5-fold decrease in the level of ATP in vegetative ppk1. Finally, the lack of polyP during the development of ppk1 mutant cells is partially offset by an increase of both ATP and inositol pyrophosphates, evidence for a model in which there is a functional interplay between inositol pyrophosphates, ATP, and polyP.

Liao, X. H., et al. (2016). "A High-Throughput, Multi-Cell Phenotype Assay for the Identification of Novel Inhibitors of Chemotaxis/Migration." Sci Rep 6: 22273.
	Chemotaxis and cell migration are fundamental, universal eukaryotic processes essential for biological functions such as embryogenesis, immunity, cell renewal, and wound healing, as well as for pathogenesis of many diseases including cancer metastasis and chronic inflammation. To identify novel chemotaxis inhibitors as probes for mechanistic studies and leads for development of new therapeutics, we developed a unique, unbiased phenotypic chemotaxis-dependent Dictyostelium aggregation assay for high-throughput screening using rapid, laser-scanning cytometry. Under defined conditions, individual Dictyostelium secrete chemoattractants, migrate, and aggregate. Chemotaxis is quantified by laser-scanning cytometry with a GFP marker expressed only in cells after chemotaxis/multi-cell aggregation. We applied the assay to screen 1,280 known compounds in a 1536-well plate format and identified two chemotaxis inhibitors. The chemotaxis inhibitory activities of both compounds were confirmed in both Dictyostelium and in human neutrophils in a directed EZ-TAXIscan chemotaxis assay. The compounds were also shown to inhibit migration of two human cancer cell lines in monolayer scratch assays. This test screen demonstrated that the miniaturized assay is extremely suited for high-throughput screening of very large libraries of small molecules to identify novel classes of chemotaxis/migratory inhibitors for drug development and research tools for targeting chemotactic pathways universal to humans and other systems.

Kwak, M. K., et al. (2016). "Polyamines regulate cell growth and cellular methylglyoxal in high-glucose medium independently of intracellular glutathione." FEBS Lett.
	Polyamines can presumably inhibit protein glycation, when associated with the methylglyoxal inevitably produced during glycolysis. Herein, we hypothesized a non-enzymatic interaction between putrescine and methylglyoxal in putrescine-deficient or -overexpressing Dictyostelium cells in high-glucose medium, which can control methylglyoxal production. Putrescine was essentially required for growth rescue accompanying methylglyoxal detoxification when cells underwent growth defect and cell cycle G1-arrest when supplemented with high-glucose. Furthermore, methylglyoxal regulation by putrescine seemed to be a parallel pathway independent of the changes in cellular glutathione content in high-glucose medium. Consequently, we suggest that Dictyostelium cells need polyamines for normal growth and cellular methylglyoxal regulation. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

Kuwayama, H. and Y. Kubohara (2016). "Differentiation-inducing factor 2 modulates chemotaxis via the histidine kinase DhkC-dependent pathway in Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett.
	DIF-1 and DIF-2 are signaling molecules that control chemotaxis in Dictyostelium discoideum. Whereas DIF-1 suppresses chemotaxis in shallow cAMP gradients, DIF-2 enhances chemotaxis under the same conditions via a phosphodiesterase, RegA, which is a part of the DhkC-RdeA-RegA two-component signaling system. In this study, to investigate the mechanism of the chemotaxis regulation by DIF-2, we examined the effects of DIF-2 (and DIF-1) on chemotaxis in rdeA- and dhkC- mutant strains. In the parental wild-type strains, chemotactic cell movement was suppressed with DIF-1 and enhanced with DIF-2 in shallow cAMP gradients. In contrast, in both rdeA- and dhkC- strains, chemotaxis was suppressed with DIF-1 but unaffected by DIF-2. The results suggest that DIF-2 modulates chemotaxis via the DhkC-RdeA-RegA signaling system. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

Katoh-Kurasawa, M., et al. (2016). "The GATA transcription factor gene gtaG is required for terminal differentiation in Dictyostelium." J Cell Sci.
	The GATA transcription factor GtaG is conserved in Dictyostelids and essential for terminal differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum, but its function is not well understood. Here we show that gtaG is expressed in prestalk cells at the anterior region of fingers and in the extending stalk during culmination. The gtaG- phenotype is cell-autonomous in prestalk cells and non-cell-autonomous in prespore cells. Transcriptome analyses reveal that GtaG regulates prestalk gene expression during cell differentiation before culmination and is required for progression into culmination. GtaG-dependent genes include genetic suppressors of the Dd-STATa-defective phenotype as well as Dd-STATa target-genes, including extra cellular matrix genes. We show that GtaG may be involved in the production of two culmination-signaling molecules, cyclic di-GMP and the spore differentiation factor SDF-1 and that addition of c-di-GMP rescues the gtaG- culmination and spore formation deficiencies. We propose that GtaG is a regulator of terminal differentiation that functions in concert with Dd-STATa and controls culmination through regulating c-di-GMP and SDF-1 production in prestalk cells.

Hulpiau, P., et al. (2016). "MALT1 is not alone after all: identification of novel paracaspases." Cell Mol Life Sci 73(5): 1103-1116.
	Paracaspases and metacaspases are two families of caspase-like proteins identified in 2000. Up until now paracaspases were considered a single gene family with one known non-metazoan paracaspase in the slime mold Dictyostelium and a single animal paracaspase called MALT1. Human MALT1 is a critical signaling component in many innate and adaptive immunity pathways that drive inflammation, and when it is overly active, it can also cause certain forms of cancer. Here, we report the identification and functional analysis of two new vertebrate paracaspases, PCASP2 and PCASP3. Functional characterization indicates that both scaffold and protease functions are conserved across the three vertebrate paralogs. This redundancy might explain the loss of two of the paralogs in mammals and one in Xenopus. Several of the vertebrate paracaspases currently have incorrect or ambiguous annotations. We propose to annotate them accordingly as PCASP1, PCASP2, and PCASP3 similar to the caspase gene nomenclature. A comprehensive search in other metazoans and in non-metazoan species identified additional new paracaspases. We also discovered the first animal metacaspase in the sponge Amphimedon. Comparative analysis of the active site suggests that paracaspases constitute one of the several subclasses of metacaspases that have evolved several times independently.

Hoeller, O., et al. (2016). "Gbeta Regulates Coupling between Actin Oscillators for Cell Polarity and Directional Migration." PLoS Biol 14(2): e1002381.
	For directional movement, eukaryotic cells depend on the proper organization of their actin cytoskeleton. This engine of motility is made up of highly dynamic nonequilibrium actin structures such as flashes, oscillations, and traveling waves. In Dictyostelium, oscillatory actin foci interact with signals such as Ras and phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate (PIP3) to form protrusions. However, how signaling cues tame actin dynamics to produce a pseudopod and guide cellular motility is a critical open question in eukaryotic chemotaxis. Here, we demonstrate that the strength of coupling between individual actin oscillators controls cell polarization and directional movement. We implement an inducible sequestration system to inactivate the heterotrimeric G protein subunit Gbeta and find that this acute perturbation triggers persistent, high-amplitude cortical oscillations of F-actin. Actin oscillators that are normally weakly coupled to one another in wild-type cells become strongly synchronized following acute inactivation of Gbeta. This global coupling impairs sensing of internal cues during spontaneous polarization and sensing of external cues during directional motility. A simple mathematical model of coupled actin oscillators reveals the importance of appropriate coupling strength for chemotaxis: moderate coupling can increase sensitivity to noisy inputs. Taken together, our data suggest that Gbeta regulates the strength of coupling between actin oscillators for efficient polarity and directional migration. As these observations are only possible following acute inhibition of Gbeta and are masked by slow compensation in genetic knockouts, our work also shows that acute loss-of-function approaches can complement and extend the reach of classical genetics in Dictyostelium and likely other systems as well.

Frej, A. D., et al. (2016). "The inositol-3-phosphate synthase biosynthetic enzyme has distinct catalytic and metabolic roles." Mol Cell Biol.
	Inositol levels, maintained by the biosynthetic enzyme inositol-3-phosphate synthase (Ino1), are altered in a range of disorders including bipolar disorder and Alzheimer's disease. To date, most inositol studies have focused on the molecular and cellular effects of inositol depletion without considering Ino1 levels. Here we employ a simple eukaryote, Dictyostelium, to demonstrate distinct effects of loss of Ino1 and inositol depletion. We show that loss of Ino1 results in inositol auxotrophy that can only be partially rescued by exogenous inositol. Removal of inositol supplementation from the ino1- mutant results in a rapid 56% reduction in inositol levels, triggering the induction of autophagy, reduced cytokinesis and substrate adhesion. Inositol depletion also caused a dramatic generalised decrease in phosphoinositide levels that was rescued by inositol supplementation. However, loss of Ino1 triggered broad metabolic changes consistent with the induction of a catabolic state that was not rescued by inositol supplementation. These data suggest a metabolic role for Ino1 independent of inositol biosynthesis. To characterise this role, an Ino1 binding partner containing SEL1L1 domains (Q54IX5) was identified with homology to mammalian macromolecular complex adaptor proteins. Our findings therefore identify a new role for Ino1, independent of inositol biosynthesis, with broad effects on cell metabolism.

Domeniconi, G., et al. (2016). "Cross-organism learning method to discover new gene functionalities." Comput Methods Programs Biomed 126: 20-34.
	BACKGROUND: Knowledge of gene and protein functions is paramount for the understanding of physiological and pathological biological processes, as well as in the development of new drugs and therapies. Analyses for biomedical knowledge discovery greatly benefit from the availability of gene and protein functional feature descriptions expressed through controlled terminologies and ontologies, i.e., of gene and protein biomedical controlled annotations. In the last years, several databases of such annotations have become available; yet, these valuable annotations are incomplete, include errors and only some of them represent highly reliable human curated information. Computational techniques able to reliably predict new gene or protein annotations with an associated likelihood value are thus paramount. METHODS: Here, we propose a novel cross-organisms learning approach to reliably predict new functionalities for the genes of an organism based on the known controlled annotations of the genes of another, evolutionarily related and better studied, organism. We leverage a new representation of the annotation discovery problem and a random perturbation of the available controlled annotations to allow the application of supervised algorithms to predict with good accuracy unknown gene annotations. Taking advantage of the numerous gene annotations available for a well-studied organism, our cross-organisms learning method creates and trains better prediction models, which can then be applied to predict new gene annotations of a target organism. RESULTS: We tested and compared our method with the equivalent single organism approach on different gene annotation datasets of five evolutionarily related organisms (Homo sapiens, Mus musculus, Bos taurus, Gallus gallus and Dictyostelium discoideum). Results show both the usefulness of the perturbation method of available annotations for better prediction model training and a great improvement of the cross-organism models with respect to the single-organism ones, without influence of the evolutionary distance between the considered organisms. The generated ranked lists of reliably predicted annotations, which describe novel gene functionalities and have an associated likelihood value, are very valuable both to complement available annotations, for better coverage in biomedical knowledge discovery analyses, and to quicken the annotation curation process, by focusing it on the prioritized novel annotations predicted.

Corrigan, A. M., et al. (2016). "A continuum model of transcriptional bursting." Elife 5.
	Transcription occurs in stochastic bursts. Early models based upon RNA hybridisation studies suggest bursting dynamics arise from alternating inactive and permissive states. Here we investigate bursting mechanism in live cells by quantitative imaging of actin gene transcription, combined with molecular genetics, stochastic simulation and probabilistic modelling. In contrast to early models, our data indicate a continuum of transcriptional states, with a slowly fluctuating initiation rate converting the gene between different levels of activity, interspersed with extended periods of inactivity. We place an upper limit of 40s on the lifetime of fluctuations in elongation rate, with initiation rate variations persisting an order of magnitude longer. TATA mutations reduce the accessibility of high activity states, leaving the lifetime of on- and off-states unchanged. A continuum or spectrum of gene states potentially enables a wide dynamic range for cell responses to stimuli.

Brzeska, H., et al. (2016). "Selective localization of myosin-I proteins in macropinosomes and actin waves." Cytoskeleton (Hoboken) 73(2): 68-82.
	Class I myosins are widely expressed with roles in endocytosis and cell migration in a variety of cell types. Dictyostelium express multiple myosin Is, including three short-tailed (Myo1A, Myo1E, Myo1F) and three long-tailed (Myo1B, Myo1C, Myo1D). Here we report the molecular basis of the specific localizations of short-tailed Myo1A, Myo1E, and Myo1F compared to our previously determined localization of long-tailed Myo1B. Myo1A and Myo1B have common and unique localizations consistent with the various features of their tail region; specifically the BH sites in their tails are required for their association with the plasma membrane and heads are sufficient for relocalization to the front of polarized cells. Myo1A does not localize to actin waves and macropinocytic protrusions, in agreement with the absence of a tail region which is required for these localizations of Myo1B. However, in spite of the overall similarity of their domain structures, the cellular distributions of Myo1E and Myo1F are quite different from Myo1A. Myo1E and Myo1F, but not Myo1A, are associated with macropinocytic cups and actin waves. The localizations of Myo1E and Myo1F in macropinocytic structures and actin waves differ from the localization of Myo1B. Myo1B colocalizes with F-actin in the actin waves and at the tips of mature macropinocytic cups whereas Myo1E and Myo1F are in the interior of actin waves and along the entire surface of macropinocytic cups. Our results point to different mechanisms of targeting of short- and long-tailed myosin Is, and are consistent with these myosins having both shared and divergent cellular functions. (c) 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

Brazill, D. (2016). "Chemotaxis: Under Agarose Assay." Methods Mol Biol 1365: 339-346.
	The unicellular eukaryote Dictyostelium discoideum represents a superb model for examining chemotaxis. Under vegetative conditions, the amoebae are chemotactically responsive to pterins, such as folate. Under starved conditions, they lose their sensitivity to pterins, and become chemotactically responsive to cAMP. As an NIH model system, Dictyostelium offers a variety of advantages in studying chemotaxis, including its conservation of mammalian signaling pathways, its ease of growth, and its genetic tractability. In this chapter, we describe the use of the under agarose chemotaxis assay to identify proteins involved in controlling motility and directional sensing in Dictyostelium discoideum. Given the similarities between Dictyostelium and mammalian cells, this allows us to dissect the conserved pathways involved in eukaryotic chemotaxis.

Boatti, L., et al. (2016). "Toxic effects of mercury on the cell nucleus of Dictyostelium discoideum." Environ Toxicol.
	Governmental agencies (www.epa.gov/mercury) and the scientific community have reported on the high toxicity due to mercury. Indeed, exposure to mercury can cause severe injury to the central nervous system and kidney in humans. Beyond its recognized toxicity, little is known regarding the molecular mechanisms involved in the actions of this heavy metal. Mercury has been also observed to form insoluble fibrous protein aggregates in the cell nucleus. We used D. discoideum to evaluate micronuclei formation and, since mercury is able to induce oxidative stress that could bring to protein aggregation, we assessed nuclear protein carbonylation by Western Blot. We observed a significant increase in micronuclei formation and 14 carbonylated proteins were identified. Moreover, we used isotope-coded protein label (ICPL) and mass spectrometry analysis of proteins obtained by lysis of purified nuclei, before of tryptic digestion to quantify nuclear proteins affected by mercury. In particular, we examined the effects of mercury that associate a classical genotoxic assay to proteomic effects into the nucleus. The data present direct evidences for mercury genotoxicity, nuclear protein carbonylation, quantitative change in core histones, and the involvement of pseudouridine synthase in mercury toxicity. (c) 2016 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Environ Toxicol, 2016.

Bhowmik, A., et al. (2016). "Excitable waves and direction-sensing in Dictyostelium discoideum: steps towards a chemotaxis model." Phys Biol 13(1): 016002.
	In recent years, there have been significant advances in our understanding of the mechanisms underlying chemically directed motility by eukaryotic cells such as Dictyostelium. In particular, the local excitation and global inhibition (LEGI) model has proven capable of providing a framework for quantitatively explaining many experiments that present Dictyostelium cells with tailored chemical stimuli and monitor their subsequent polarization. In their natural setting, cells generate their own directional signals via the detection and secretion of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP). Here, we couple the LEGI approach to an excitable medium model of the cAMP wave-field that is propagated by the cells and investigate the possibility for this class of models to enable accurate chemotaxis to the cAMP waveforms expected in vivo. Our results indicate that the ultra-sensitive version of the model does an excellent job in providing natural wave rectification, thereby providing a compelling solution to the 'back-of-the-wave paradox' during cellular aggregation.

Batsios, P., et al. (2016). "Proximity-Dependent Biotin Identification (BioID) in Dictyostelium Amoebae." Methods Enzymol 569: 23-42.
	The identification of a bona fide lamin-like protein in Dictyostelium made this lower eukaryote an attractive model organism to study evolutionarily conserved nuclear envelope (NE) proteins important for nuclear organization and human laminopathies. Proximity-dependent biotin identification (BioID), reported by Roux and colleagues, is a powerful discovery tool for lamin-associated proteins. In this method, living cells express a bait protein (e.g., lamin) fused to an R118G-mutated version of BirA, an Escherichia coli biotinylase. In the presence of biotin, BirA-R118G biotinylates target proteins in close proximity in vivo, which are purified using streptavidin and identified by immunoblotting or mass spectrometry. We adapted the BioID method for use in Dictyostelium amoebae. The protocols described here successfully revealed Dictyostelium lamin-like protein NE81 proximity to Sun1, a conserved inner nuclear membrane protein.

Bastounis, E., et al. (2016). "Cooperative Cell Motility during Tandem Locomotion of Amoeboid Cells." Mol Biol Cell.
	Streams of migratory cells are initiated by the formation of tandem pairs of cells connected head-to-tail to which other cells subsequently adhere. The mechanisms regulating the transition from single to streaming cell migration remain elusive, although several molecules have been suggested to be involved. In this work, we investigate the mechanics of the locomotion of Dictyostelium tandem pairs by analyzing the spatiotemporal evolution of their traction adhesions (TAs). We find that in migrating wild-type tandem pairs, each cell exerts traction forces on stationary sites ( approximately 80% of the time), and the trailing cell reuses the location of the TAs of the leading cell. Both leading and trailing cells form contractile dipoles and synchronize the formation of new frontal TAs with a approximately 54 s time delay. Cells not expressing the lectin discoidin I, or moving on discoidin I-coated substrata, form fewer tandems but the trailing cell still reuses the locations of the TAs of the leading cell, suggesting that discoidin I is not responsible for a possible chemically-driven synchronization process. The migration dynamics of the tandems indicates that their TAs' reuse results from the mechanical synchronization of the leading and trailing cells' protrusions and retractions (motility cycles) aided by the cell-cell adhesions.

Zitnik, M., et al. (2015). "Gene Prioritization by Compressive Data Fusion and Chaining." PLoS Comput Biol 11(10): e1004552.
	Data integration procedures combine heterogeneous data sets into predictive models, but they are limited to data explicitly related to the target object type, such as genes. Collage is a new data fusion approach to gene prioritization. It considers data sets of various association levels with the prediction task, utilizes collective matrix factorization to compress the data, and chaining to relate different object types contained in a data compendium. Collage prioritizes genes based on their similarity to several seed genes. We tested Collage by prioritizing bacterial response genes in Dictyostelium as a novel model system for prokaryote-eukaryote interactions. Using 4 seed genes and 14 data sets, only one of which was directly related to the bacterial response, Collage proposed 8 candidate genes that were readily validated as necessary for the response of Dictyostelium to Gram-negative bacteria. These findings establish Collage as a method for inferring biological knowledge from the integration of heterogeneous and coarsely related data sets.

Zhu, X., et al. (2015). "Interplay between motility and cell-substratum adhesion in amoeboid cells." Biomicrofluidics 9(5): 054112.
	The effective migration of amoeboid cells requires a fine regulation of cell-substratum adhesion. These entwined processes have been shown to be regulated by a host of biophysical and biochemical cues. Here, we reveal the pivotal role played by calcium-based mechanosensation in the active regulation of adhesion resulting in a high migratory adaptability. Using mechanotactically driven Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae, we uncover the existence of optimal mechanosensitive conditions-corresponding to specific levels of extracellular calcium-for persistent directional migration over physicochemically different substrates. When these optimal mechanosensitive conditions are met, noticeable enhancement in cell migration directionality and speed is achieved, yet with significant differences among the different substrates. In the same narrow range of calcium concentrations that yields optimal cellular mechanosensory activity, we uncovered an absolute minimum in cell-substratum adhesion activity, for all considered substrates, with differences in adhesion strength among them amplified. The blocking of the mechanosensitive ion channels with gadolinium-i.e., the inhibition of the primary mechanosensory apparatus-hampers the active reduction in substrate adhesion, thereby leading to the same undifferentiated and drastically reduced directed migratory response. The adaptive behavioral responses of Dictyostelium cells sensitive to substrates with varying physicochemical properties suggest the possibility of novel surface analyses based on the mechanobiological ability of mechanosensitive and guidable cells to probe substrates at the nanometer-to-micrometer level.

Zheng, C., et al. (2015). "NaCS-PDMDAAC immobilized cultivation of recombinant Dictyostelium discoideum for soluble human Fas ligand production." Biotechnol Prog 31(2): 424-430.
	Dictyostelium discoideum is a promising eukaryotic host for the expression of heterologous proteins requiring post-translational modifications. However, the dilute nature of D. discoideum cell culture limits applications for high value proteins production. D. discoideum cells, entrapped in sodium cellulose sulfate/poly-dimethyl-diallyl-ammonium chloride (NaCS-PDMDAAC) capsules were used for biosynthesis of the heterologous protein, soluble human Fas ligand (hFasL). Semi-continuous cultivations with capsules recycling were carried out in shake flasks. Also, a scaled-up cultivation of immobilized D. discoideum for hFasL production in a customized vitreous airlift bioreactor was conducted. The results show that NaCS-PDMDAAC capsules have desirable biophysical properties including biocompatibility with the D. discoideum cells and good mechanical stability throughout the duration of cultivation. A maximum cell density of 2.02 x 10(7) cells mL(-1) (equivalent to a maximum cell density of 2.22 x 10(8) cells mL(-1) in capsules) and a hFasL concentration of 130.40 mug L(-1) (equivalent to a hFasL concentration of 1434.40 mug L(-1) in capsules) were obtained in shake flask cultivation with capsules recycling. Also, a maximum cell density of 1.72 x 10(7) cells mL(-1) (equivalent to a maximum cell density of 1.89 x 10(8) cells mL(-1) in capsules) and a hFasL concentration of 106.10 mug L(-1) (equivalent to a hFasL concentration of 1167.10 mug L(-1) in capsules) were obtained after approximately 170 h cultivation in the airlift bioreactor (with a working volume of 200 mL in a 315 mL bioreactor). As the article presents a premier work in the application of NaCS-PDMDAAC immobilized D. discoideum cells for the production of hFasL, more work is required to further optimize the system to generate higher cell densities and hFasL titers for large-scale applications.

Yang, Y., et al. (2015). "Characterization of the Catalytic and Nucleotide Binding Properties of the alpha-Kinase Domain of Dictyostelium Myosin-II Heavy Chain Kinase A." J Biol Chem 290(39): 23935-23946.
	The alpha-kinases are a widely expressed family of serine/threonine protein kinases that exhibit no sequence identity with conventional eukaryotic protein kinases. In this report, we provide new information on the catalytic properties of the alpha-kinase domain of Dictyostelium myosin-II heavy chain kinase-A (termed A-CAT). Crystallization of A-CAT in the presence of MgATP yielded structures with AMP or adenosine in the catalytic cleft together with a phosphorylated Asp-766 residue. The results show that the beta- and alpha-phosphoryl groups are transferred either directly or indirectly to the catalytically essential Asp-766. Biochemical assays confirmed that A-CAT hydrolyzed ATP, ADP, and AMP with kcat values of 1.9, 0.6, and 0.32 min(-1), respectively, and showed that A-CAT can use ADP to phosphorylate peptides and proteins. Binding assays using fluorescent 2'/3'-O-(N-methylanthraniloyl) analogs of ATP and ADP yielded Kd values for ATP, ADP, AMP, and adenosine of 20 +/- 3, 60 +/- 20, 160 +/- 60, and 45 +/- 15 muM, respectively. Site-directed mutagenesis showed that Glu-713, Leu-716, and Lys-645, all of which interact with the adenine base, were critical for nucleotide binding. Mutation of the highly conserved Gln-758, which chelates a nucleotide-associated Mg(2+) ion, eliminated catalytic activity, whereas loss of the highly conserved Lys-722 and Arg-592 decreased kcat values for kinase and ATPase activities by 3-6-fold. Mutation of Asp-663 impaired kinase activity to a much greater extent than ATPase, indicating a specific role in peptide substrate binding, whereas mutation of Gln-768 doubled ATPase activity, suggesting that it may act to exclude water from the active site.

Yang, J. M., et al. (2015). "Engineering PTEN function: membrane association and activity." Methods 77-78: 119-124.
	Many tumors are associated with deficiency of the tumor suppressor, PTEN, a PIP3 phosphatase that turns off PIP3 signaling. The major site of PTEN action is the plasma membrane, where PIP3 is produced by PI3 kinases. However, the mechanism and functional importance of PTEN membrane recruitment are poorly defined. Using the heterologous expression system in which human PTEN is expressed in Dictyostelium discoideum, we defined the molecular mechanisms that regulate the membrane-binding site through inhibitory interactions with the phosphorylated C-terminal tail. In addition, we potentiated mechanisms that mediate PTEN membrane association and engineered an enhanced PTEN with increased tumor suppressor functions. Moreover, we identified a new class of cancer-associated PTEN mutations that are specifically defective in membrane association. In this review, we summarize recent advances in PTEN-membrane interactions and methods useful in addressing PTEN function.

Xiong, Q., et al. (2015). "The phenotypes of ATG9, ATG16 and ATG9/16 knock-out mutants imply autophagy-dependent and -independent functions." Open Biol 5(4): 150008.
	Macroautophagy is a highly conserved intracellular bulk degradation system of all eukaryotic cells. It is governed by a large number of autophagy proteins (ATGs) and is crucial for many cellular processes. Here, we describe the phenotypes of Dictyostelium discoideum ATG16(-) and ATG9(-)/16(-) cells and compare them to the previously reported ATG9(-) mutant. ATG16 deficiency caused an increase in the expression of several core autophagy genes, among them atg9 and the two atg8 paralogues. The single and double ATG9 and ATG16 knock-out mutants had complex phenotypes and displayed severe and comparable defects in pinocytosis and phagocytosis. Uptake of Legionella pneumophila was reduced. In addition, ATG9(-) and ATG16(-) cells had dramatic defects in autophagy, development and proteasomal activity which were much more severe in the ATG9(-)/16(-) double mutant. Mutant cells showed an increase in poly-ubiquitinated proteins and contained large ubiquitin-positive protein aggregates which partially co-localized with ATG16-GFP in ATG9(-)/16(-) cells. The more severe autophagic, developmental and proteasomal phenotypes of ATG9(-)/16(-) cells imply that ATG9 and ATG16 probably function in parallel in autophagy and have in addition autophagy-independent functions in further cellular processes.

Xie, X., et al. (2015). "Potassium Sensitive Optical Nanosensors Containing Voltage Sensitive Dyes." Chimia (Aarau) 69(4): 196-198.
	lonophore-based ion-selective optical nanosensors have been explored for a number of years. Voltage sensitive dyes (VSDs) have been introduced into this type of sensors only very recently, forming a new class of analytical tools. Here, K(+)-sensitive nanospheres incorporating a lipophilic VSD were successfully fabricated and characterized. The nanosensors were readily delivered into the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum in a non-invasive manner, forming a promising new platform for intracellular ion quantification and imaging.

Xie, X., et al. (2015). "Charged solvatochromic dyes as signal transducers in pH independent fluorescent and colorimetric ion selective nanosensors." Anal Chem 87(19): 9954-9959.
	Ionophore-based ion selective optical nanosensors that operate independently of the sample pH are developed here by the use of electrically charged solvatochromic dyes as signal transducers. A series of dye molecules with a D-pi-A structure was synthesized and characterized in various solvents and incorporated into ion selective nanospheres for K(+), Na(+), and H(+). Since dye leakage was greatly suppressed when the solvatochromic dyes were encapsulated in the nanosphere core, ion sensing nanospheres were explored for cellular ion imaging in Dictyostelium discoideum live cells but spontaneous dye loss resulted in undesired staining of cells. The in vitro analysis of potassium in human plasma was successfully demonstrated with this approach. A theoretical model was developed for the response of the ion selective nanosensors containing charged solvatochromic dyes. The nanosensors exhibited a tunable response range, high sensitivity, and good stability.

Wood, L. A. and S. J. Royle (2015). "Zero tolerance: amphipathic helices in endocytosis." Dev Cell 33(2): 119-120.
	Endocytosis is the physical battle to form a new vesicle in the face of counteracting forces, such as membrane tension. Skruzny et al. (2015) and Miller et al. (2015) now shed light on endocytic proteins that bear a "Helix 0" and on the proteins' role in the struggle to make clathrin-coated vesicles.

Wolf, J. B., et al. (2015). "Fitness Trade-offs Result in the Illusion of Social Success." Curr Biol 25(8): 1086-1090.
	Cooperation is ubiquitous across the tree of life, from simple microbes to the complex social systems of animals. Individuals cooperate by engaging in costly behaviors that can be exploited by other individuals who benefit by avoiding these associated costs. Thus, if successful exploitation of social partners during cooperative interactions increases relative fitness, then we expect selection to lead to the emergence of a single optimal winning strategy in which individuals maximize their gain from cooperation while minimizing their associated costs. Such social "cheating" appears to be widespread in nature, including in several microbial systems, but despite the fitness advantages favoring social cheating, populations tend to harbor significant variation in social success rather than a single optimal winning strategy. Using the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum, we provide a possible explanation for the coexistence of such variation. We find that genotypes typically designated as "cheaters" because they produce a disproportionate number of spores in chimeric fruiting bodies do not actually gain higher fitness as a result of this apparent advantage because they produce smaller, less viable spores than putative "losers." As a consequence of this trade-off between spore number and viability, genotypes with different spore production strategies, which give the appearance of differential social success, ultimately have similar realized fitness. These findings highlight the limitations of using single fitness proxies in evolutionary studies and suggest that interpreting social trait variation in terms of strategies like cheating or cooperating may be misleading unless these behaviors are considered in the context of the true multidimensional nature of fitness.

Wojtkowska, M., et al. (2015). "The TOM Complex of Amoebozoans: the Cases of the Amoeba Acanthamoeba castellanii and the Slime Mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Protist 166(3): 349-362.
	Protein import into mitochondria requires a wide variety of proteins, forming complexes in both mitochondrial membranes. The TOM complex (translocase of the outer membrane) is responsible for decoding of targeting signals, translocation of imported proteins across or into the outer membrane, and their subsequent sorting. Thus the TOM complex is regarded as the main gate into mitochondria for imported proteins. Available data indicate that mitochondria of representative organisms from across the major phylogenetic lineages of eukaryotes differ in subunit organization of the TOM complex. The subunit organization of the TOM complex in the Amoebozoa is still elusive, so we decided to investigate its organization in the soil amoeba Acanthamoeba castellanii and the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. They represent two major subclades of the Amoebozoa: the Lobosa and Conosa, respectively. Our results confirm the presence of Tom70, Tom40 and Tom7 in the A. castellanii and D. discoideum TOM complex, while the presence of Tom22 and Tom20 is less supported. Interestingly, the Tom proteins display the highest similarity to Opisthokonta cognate proteins, with the exception of Tom40. Thus representatives of two major subclades of the Amoebozoa appear to be similar in organization of the TOM complex, despite differences in their lifestyle.

Wilson, M. S., et al. (2015). "A novel method for the purification of inositol phosphates from biological samples reveals that no phytate is present in human plasma or urine." Open Biol 5(3): 150014.
	Inositol phosphates are a large and diverse family of signalling molecules. While genetic studies have discovered important functions for them, the biochemistry behind these roles is often not fully characterized. A key obstacle in inositol phosphate research in mammalian cells has been the lack of straightforward techniques for their purification and analysis. Here we describe the ability of titanium dioxide (TiO2) beads to bind inositol phosphates. This discovery allowed the development of a new purification protocol that, coupled with gel analysis, permitted easy identification and quantification of InsP6 (phytate), its pyrophosphate derivatives InsP7 and InsP8, and the nucleotides ATP and GTP from cell or tissue extracts. Using this approach, InsP6, InsP7 and InsP8 were visualized in Dictyostelium extracts and a variety of mammalian cell lines and tissues, and the effects of metabolic perturbation on these were explored. TiO2 bead purification also enabled us to quantify InsP6 in human plasma and urine, which led to two distinct but related observations. Firstly, there is an active InsP6 phosphatase in human plasma, and secondly, InsP6 is undetectable in either fluid. These observations seriously question reports that InsP6 is present in human biofluids and the advisability of using InsP6 as a dietary supplement.

Weis, F., et al. (2015). "Mechanism of eIF6 release from the nascent 60S ribosomal subunit." Nat Struct Mol Biol 22(11): 914-919.
	SBDS protein (deficient in the inherited leukemia-predisposition disorder Shwachman-Diamond syndrome) and the GTPase EFL1 (an EF-G homolog) activate nascent 60S ribosomal subunits for translation by catalyzing eviction of the antiassociation factor eIF6 from nascent 60S ribosomal subunits. However, the mechanism is completely unknown. Here, we present cryo-EM structures of human SBDS and SBDS-EFL1 bound to Dictyostelium discoideum 60S ribosomal subunits with and without endogenous eIF6. SBDS assesses the integrity of the peptidyl (P) site, bridging uL16 (mutated in T-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia) with uL11 at the P-stalk base and the sarcin-ricin loop. Upon EFL1 binding, SBDS is repositioned around helix 69, thus facilitating a conformational switch in EFL1 that displaces eIF6 by competing for an overlapping binding site on the 60S ribosomal subunit. Our data reveal the conserved mechanism of eIF6 release, which is corrupted in both inherited and sporadic leukemias.

Weerdenburg, E. M., et al. (2015). "Genome-wide transposon mutagenesis indicates that Mycobacterium marinum customizes its virulence mechanisms for survival and replication in different hosts." Infect Immun 83(5): 1778-1788.
	The interaction of environmental bacteria with unicellular eukaryotes is generally considered a major driving force for the evolution of intracellular pathogens, allowing them to survive and replicate in phagocytic cells of vertebrate hosts. To test this hypothesis on a genome-wide level, we determined for the intracellular pathogen Mycobacterium marinum whether it uses conserved strategies to exploit host cells from both protozoan and vertebrate origin. Using transposon-directed insertion site sequencing (TraDIS), we determined differences in genetic requirements for survival and replication in phagocytic cells of organisms from different kingdoms. In line with the general hypothesis, we identified a number of general virulence mechanisms, including the type VII protein secretion system ESX-1, biosynthesis of polyketide lipids, and utilization of sterols. However, we were also able to show that M. marinum contains an even larger set of host-specific virulence determinants, including proteins involved in the modification of surface glycolipids and, surprisingly, the auxiliary proteins of the ESX-1 system. Several of these factors were in fact counterproductive in other hosts. Therefore, M. marinum contains different sets of virulence factors that are tailored for specific hosts. Our data imply that although amoebae could function as a training ground for intracellular pathogens, they do not fully prepare pathogens for crossing species barriers.

Wang, Y. and G. Shaulsky (2015). "TgrC1 Has Distinct Functions in Dictyostelium Development and Allorecognition." PLoS One 10(4): e0124270.
	The cell adhesion glycoproteins, TgrB1 and TgrC1, are essential for Dictyostelium development and allorecognition, but it has been impossible to determine whether their pleiotropic roles are due to one common function or to distinct functions in separate pathways. Mutations in the respective genes, tgrB1 and tgrC1, abrogate both development and allorecognition and the defects cannot be suppressed by activation of the cyclic AMP dependent protein kinase PKA, a central regulator of Dictyostelium development. Here we report that mutations in genes outside the known PKA pathway partially suppress the tgrC1-null developmental defect. We separated the pleiotropic roles of tgrC1 by testing the effects of a suppression mutation, stcinsA under different conditions. stcAins modified only the developmental defect of tgrC1- but not the allorecognition defect, suggesting that the two functions are separable. The suppressor mutant phenotype also revealed that tgrC1 regulates stalk differentiation in a cell-autonomous manner and spore differentiation in a non-cell-autonomous manner. Moreover, stcAins did not modify the developmental defect of tgrB1-, but the less robust phenotype of tgrB1- obscures the possible role of stcA relative to tgrB1.

Wang, Q. and H. G. Othmer (2015). "Computational analysis of amoeboid swimming at low Reynolds number." J Math Biol.
	Recent experimental work has shown that eukaryotic cells can swim in a fluid as well as crawl on a substrate. We investigate the swimming behavior of Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae who swim by initiating traveling protrusions at the front that propagate rearward. In our model we prescribe the velocity at the surface of the swimming cell, and use techniques of complex analysis to develop 2D models that enable us to study the fluid-cell interaction. Shapes that approximate the protrusions used by Dictyostelium discoideum can be generated via the Schwarz-Christoffel transformation, and the boundary-value problem that results for swimmers in the Stokes flow regime is then reduced to an integral equation on the boundary of the unit disk. We analyze the swimming characteristics of several varieties of swimming Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae, and discuss how the slenderness of the cell body and the shapes of the protrusion effect the swimming of these cells. The results may provide guidance in designing low Reynolds number swimming models.

Wang, C., et al. (2015). "Adenylyl cyclase localization to the uropod of aggregating Dictyostelium cells requires RacC." Biochem Biophys Res Commun 465(3): 613-619.
	The localization of adenylyl cyclase A (ACA) to uropod of cells is required for the stream formation during Dictyostelium development. RacC is a Dictyostelium orthologue of Cdc42. We identified a streaming defect of racC(-) cells as they are clearly less polarized and form smaller and fragmented streams. ACA-YFP is mainly associated with intracellular vesicular structures, but not with the plasma membrane in racC(-) cells. racC(-) cells have a slightly higher number of vesicles than Ax3 cells, suggesting that the defect of ACA trafficking is not simply due to the lack of vesicle formation. While the ACA-YFP vesicles traveled with an average velocity of 9.1 mum/min in Ax3 cells, a slow and diffusional movement without direction with an average velocity of 4 mum/min was maintained in racC(-) cells. Images acquired by using total internal reflection fluorescence (TIRF) microscopy and fluorescence recovery after photobleaching (FRAP) analysis revealed that a significantly decreased number of ACA-YFP vesicles appeared near the cell membrane, indicating a defect in ACA-YFP vesicle trafficking. These results suggest an important role of RacC in the rapid and directional movements of ACA vesicles on microtubules to the plasma membrane, especially to the back of polarized cell.

Walker, M. C. and R. S. Williams (2015). "New experimental therapies for status epilepticus in preclinical development." Epilepsy Behav 49: 290-293.
	Starting with the established antiepileptic drug, valproic acid, we have taken a novel approach to develop new antiseizure drugs that may be effective in status epilepticus. We first identified that valproic acid has a potent effect on a biochemical pathway, the phosphoinositide pathway, in Dictyostelium discoideum, and we demonstrated that this may relate to its mechanism of action against seizures in mammalian systems. Through screening in this pathway, we have identified a large array of fatty acids and fatty acid derivatives with antiseizure potential. These were then evaluated in an in vitro mammalian system. One compound that we identified through this process is a major constituent of the ketogenic diet, strongly arguing that it may be the fatty acids that are mediating the antiseizure effect of this diet. We further tested two of the more potent compounds in an in vivo model of status epilepticus and demonstrated that they were more effective than valproic acid in treating the status epilepticus. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled "Status Epilepticus".

von Bulow, J., et al. (2015). "The amoeboidal Dictyostelium aquaporin AqpB is gated via Tyr216 and aqpB gene deletion affects random cell motility." Biol Cell 107(3): 78-88.
	BACKGROUND INFORMATION: Regulation of aquaporin (AQPs) water channels mostly occurs on the transcriptional level or by intracellular trafficking. Direct AQP gating is comparatively rare and is described mainly for fungi and plants. Earlier, we identified a gated water-specific AQP in Dictyostelium discoideum, AqpB, which is opened by truncation of an extended intracellular loop D (AqpB Delta208-219). RESULTS: We show that Tyr216 of loop D is a key residue in the gating mechanism possibly involving phosphorylation. Mutation of Tyr216 to aspartate or glutamate initiated water permeability (Pf = 69 mum/s) to the same extent as AqpB Delta208-219, whereas neither replacement of Tyr216 by a positive arginine (Y216R) nor introduction of a negative charge in a neighbouring position (T217D) opened the channel. We overexpressed AqpB wildtype and AqpB Delta208-219 as GFP fusion constructs in Dictyostelium amoebae and found that the truncated, permanently open AqpB yielded cells with reduced capability to cope with hypotonic stress. Genetic deletion of aqpB yielded a strain with significantly reduced speed of random motility (4.5 mum/min vs. 6.3 mum/min of wildtype cells). Yet, chemotaxis towards folate and cAMP was unaffected. In this context, we identified a second, so-far uncharacterised amoeboidal AQP, AqpD, whose role in directed cell locomotion needs to be established. CONCLUSION: Our data add to the completion of the Dictyostelium model for cell motility and show that knowledge on the expression, permeability properties and localisation of amoeboidal AQPs are crucial for further development of the system.

Von Bulow, J. and E. Beitz (2015). "Number and regulation of protozoan aquaporins reflect environmental complexity." Biol Bull 229(1): 38-46.
	Protozoa are a diverse group of unicellular eukaryotes. Evidence has accumulated that protozoan aquaporin water and solute channels (AQP) contribute to adaptation in changing environments. Intracellular protozoan parasites live a well-sheltered life. Plasmodium spp. express a single AQP, Toxoplasma gondii two, while Trypanosoma cruzi and Leishamnia spp. encode up to five AQPs. Their AQPs are thought to import metabolic precursors and simultaneously to dispose of waste and to help parasites survive osmotic stress during transmission to and from the insect vector or during kidney passages. Trypanosoma brucei is a protozoan parasite that swims freely in the human blood. Expression and intracellular localization of the three T. brucei AQPs depend on the stage of differentiation during the life cycle, suggesting distinct roles in energy generation, metabolism, and cell motility. Free-living amoebae are in direct contact with the environment, encountering severe and sudden changes in the availability of nutrition, and in the osmotic conditions due to rainfall or drought. Amoeba proteus expresses a single AQP that is present in the contractile vacuole complex required for osmoregulation, whereas Dictyostelium discoideum expresses four AQPs, of which two are present in the single-celled amoeboidal stage and two more in the later multicellular stages preceding spore formation. The number and regulation of protozoan aquaporins may reflect environmental complexity. We highlight the gated AqpB from D. discoideum as an example of how life in the wild is challenged by a complex AQP structure-function relationship.

Verkhovsky, A. B. (2015). "Three-dimensional forces for two-dimensional motion." Biophys J 108(4): 781-782.
	
Verboon, J. M., et al. (2015). "Wash interacts with lamin and affects global nuclear organization." Curr Biol 25(6): 804-810.
	The cytoplasmic functions of Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome family (WAS) proteins are well established and include roles in cytoskeleton reorganization and membrane-cytoskeletal interactions important for membrane/vesicle trafficking, morphogenesis, immune response, and signal transduction. Misregulation of these proteins is associated with immune deficiency and metastasis [1-4]. Cytoplasmic WAS proteins act as effectors of Rho family GTPases and polymerize branched actin through the Arp2/3 complex [1, 5]. Previously, we identified Drosophila washout (wash) as a new member of the WAS family with essential cytoplasmic roles in early development [6, 7]. Studies in mammalian cells and Dictyostelium suggest that WASH functions primarily in a multiprotein complex that regulates endosome shape and trafficking in an Arp2/3-dependent manner [8-11]. However, roles for classically cytoplasmic proteins in the nucleus are beginning to emerge, in particular, as participants in the regulation of gene expression [12, 13]. Here, we show that Drosophila Wash is present in the nucleus, where it plays a key role in global nuclear organization. wash mutant and knockdown nuclei disrupt subnuclear structures/organelles and exhibit the abnormal wrinkled morphology reminiscent of those observed in diverse laminopathies [14-16]. We find that nuclear Wash interacts with B-type Lamin (Lamin Dm0), and, like Lamin, Wash associates with constitutive heterochromatin. Wash knockdown increases chromatin accessibility of repressive compartments and results in a global redistribution of repressive histone modifications. Thus, our results reveal a novel role for Wash in modulating nucleus morphology and in the organization of both chromatin and non-chromatin nuclear sub-structures.

Veltman, D. M. (2015). "Drink or drive: competition between macropinocytosis and cell migration." Biochem Soc Trans 43(1): 129-132.
	The cytoskeleton is utilized for a variety of cellular processes, including migration, endocytosis and adhesion. The required molecular components are often shared between different processes, but it is not well understood how the cells balance their use. We find that macropinocytosis and cell migration are negatively correlated. Heavy drinkers move only slowly and vice versa, fast cells do not take big gulps. Both processes are balanced by the lipid phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate (PIP3). Elevated PIP3 signalling causes a shift towards macropinocytosis and inhibits motility by redirecting the SCAR/WAVE complex, a major nucleator of actin filaments. High resolution microscopy shows that patches with high levels of PIP3 recruit SCAR/WAVE on their periphery, resulting in circular ruffle formation and engulfment. Results shed new light on the role of PIP3, which is commonly thought to promote cell motility.

Varkuti, B. H., et al. (2015). "Structural model of weak binding actomyosin in the prepowerstroke state." J Biol Chem 290(3): 1679-1688.
	We present the first in silico model of the weak binding actomyosin in the initial powerstroke state, representing the actin binding-induced major structural changes in myosin. First, we docked an actin trimer to prepowerstroke myosin then relaxed the complex by a 100-ns long unrestrained molecular dynamics. In the first few nanoseconds, actin binding induced an extra primed myosin state, i.e. the further priming of the myosin lever by 18 degrees coupled to a further closure of switch 2 loop. We demonstrated that actin induces the extra primed state of myosin specifically through the actin N terminus-activation loop interaction. The applied in silico methodology was validated by forming rigor structures that perfectly fitted into an experimentally determined EM map of the rigor actomyosin. Our results unveiled the role of actin in the powerstroke by presenting that actin moves the myosin lever to the extra primed state that leads to the effective lever swing.

Urushihara, H., et al. (2015). "Comparative genome and transcriptome analyses of the social amoeba Acytostelium subglobosum that accomplishes multicellular development without germ-soma differentiation." BMC Genomics 16: 80.
	BACKGROUND: Social amoebae are lower eukaryotes that inhabit the soil. They are characterized by the construction of a starvation-induced multicellular fruiting body with a spore ball and supportive stalk. In most species, the stalk is filled with motile stalk cells, as represented by the model organism Dictyostelium discoideum, whose developmental mechanisms have been well characterized. However, in the genus Acytostelium, the stalk is acellular and all aggregated cells become spores. Phylogenetic analyses have shown that it is not an ancestral genus but has lost the ability to undergo cell differentiation. RESULTS: We performed genome and transcriptome analyses of Acytostelium subglobosum and compared our findings to other available dictyostelid genome data. Although A. subglobosum adopts a qualitatively different developmental program from other dictyostelids, its gene repertoire was largely conserved. Yet, families of polyketide synthase and extracellular matrix proteins have not expanded and a serine protease and ABC transporter B family gene, tagA, and a few other developmental genes are missing in the A. subglobosum lineage. Temporal gene expression patterns are astonishingly dissimilar from those of D. discoideum, and only a limited fraction of the ortholog pairs shared the same expression patterns, so that some signaling cascades for development seem to be disabled in A. subglobosum. CONCLUSIONS: The absence of the ability to undergo cell differentiation in Acytostelium is accompanied by a small change in coding potential and extensive alterations in gene expression patterns.

Uchimura, S., et al. (2015). "A flipped ion pair at the dynein-microtubule interface is critical for dynein motility and ATPase activation." J Cell Biol 208(2): 211-222.
	Dynein is a motor protein that moves on microtubules (MTs) using the energy of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) hydrolysis. To understand its motility mechanism, it is crucial to know how the signal of MT binding is transmitted to the ATPase domain to enhance ATP hydrolysis. However, the molecular basis of signal transmission at the dynein-MT interface remains unclear. Scanning mutagenesis of tubulin identified two residues in alpha-tubulin, R403 and E416, that are critical for ATPase activation and directional movement of dynein. Electron cryomicroscopy and biochemical analyses revealed that these residues form salt bridges with the residues in the dynein MT-binding domain (MTBD) that work in concert to induce registry change in the stalk coiled coil and activate the ATPase. The R403-E3390 salt bridge functions as a switch for this mechanism because of its reversed charge relative to other residues at the interface. This study unveils the structural basis for coupling between MT binding and ATPase activation and implicates the MTBD in the control of directional movement.

Tarres, M., et al. (2015). "Biological interaction of living cells with COSAN-based synthetic vesicles." Sci Rep 5: 7804.
	Cobaltabisdicarbollide (COSAN) [3,3'-Co(1,2-C2B9H11)2](-), is a complex boron-based anion that has the unusual property of self-assembly into membranes and vesicles. These membranes have similar dimensions to biological membranes found in cells, and previously COSAN has been shown to pass through synthetic lipid membranes and those of living cells without causing breakdown of membrane barrier properties. Here, we investigate the interaction of this inorganic membrane system with living cells. We show that COSAN has no immediate effect on cell viability, and cells fully recover when COSAN is removed following exposure for hours to days. COSAN elicits a range of cell biological effects, including altered cell morphology, inhibition of cell growth and, in some cases, apoptosis. These observations reveal a new biology at the interface between inorganic, synthetic COSAN membranes and naturally occurring biological membranes.

Tarnita, C. E., et al. (2015). "Fitness tradeoffs between spores and nonaggregating cells can explain the coexistence of diverse genotypes in cellular slime molds." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 112(9): 2776-2781.
	Cellular slime molds, including the well-studied Dictyostelium discoideum, are amoebae whose life cycle includes both a single-cellular and a multicellular stage. To achieve the multicellular stage, individual amoebae aggregate upon starvation to form a fruiting body made of dead stalk cells and reproductive spores, a process that has been described in terms of cooperation and altruism. When amoebae aggregate they do not perfectly discriminate against nonkin, leading to chimeric fruiting bodies. Within chimeras, complex interactions among genotypes have been documented, which should theoretically reduce genetic diversity. This is however inconsistent with the great diversity of genotypes found in nature. Recent work has shown that a little-studied component of D. discoideum fitness--the loner cells that do not participate in the aggregation--can be selected for depending on environmental conditions and that, together with the spores, they could represent a bet-hedging strategy. We suggest that in all cellular slime molds the existence of loners could resolve the apparent diversity paradox in two ways. First, if loners are accounted for, then apparent genotypic skew in the spores of chimeras could simply be the result of different investments into spores versus loners. Second, in an ecosystem with multiple local environments differing in their food recovery characteristics and connected globally via weak-to-moderate dispersal, coexistence of multiple genotypes can occur. Finally, we argue that the loners make it impossible to define altruistic behavior, winners or losers, without a clear description of the ecology.

Taniura, H., et al. (2015). "Nse1 and Nse4, subunits of the Smc5-Smc6 complex, are involved in Dictyostelium development upon starvation." Dev Growth Differ 57(6): 430-443.
	The Smc5-Smc6 complex contains a heterodimeric core of two SMC proteins and non-Smc elements (Nse1-6), and plays an important role in DNA repair. We investigated the functional roles of Nse4 and Nse1 in Dictyostelium discoideum. Nse4 and Nse3 expressed as Flag-tagged fusion proteins were highly enriched in nuclei, while Nse1 was localized in whole cells. Using yeast two-hybrid assays, only the interaction between Nse3 and Nse1 was detected among the combinations. However, all of the interactions among these three proteins were recognized by co-immunoprecipitation assay using cell lysates prepared from the cells expressing green fluorescent protein (GFP)- or Flag-tagged fusion proteins. GFP-tagged Nse1, which localized in whole cells, was translocated to nuclei when co-expressed with Flag-tagged Nse3 or Nse4. RNAi-mediated Nse1 and Nse4 knockdown cells (Nse1 KD and Nse4 KD cells) were generated and found to be more sensitive to UV-induced cell death than control cells. Upon starvation, Nse1 and Nse4 KD cells had increases in the number of smaller fruiting bodies that formed on non-nutrient agar plates or aggregates that formed under submerged culture. We found a reduction in the mRNA level of pdsA, in vegetative and 8 h-starved Nse4 KD cells, and pdsA knockdown cells displayed effects similar to Nse4 KD cells. Our results suggest that Nse4 and Nse1 are involved in not only the cellular DNA damage response but also cellular development in D. discoideum.

Takahashi, K. and T. Toyota (2015). "Autonomous buckling of micrometer-sized lipid-protein membrane patches constructed by Dictyostelium discoideum." J Biol Eng 9: 3.
	BACKGROUND: The cytosol of amoeba cells controls the membrane deformation during their motion in vivo. To investigate such ability of the cytosol of amoeba cell, Dictyostelium discoideum (Dictyostelium), in vitro, we used lipids extracted from Dictyostelium and commercially available phospholipids, and prepared substrate-supported lipid membrane patches on the micrometer scale by spin coating. RESULTS: We found that the spin coater holder, which has pores (pore size = 3.1 mm) of negative pressure to hold the cover glass induced the concave surface of the cover glass. The membrane lipid patches were formed at each position in the vicinity of the holder pores and their sizes were in the range of 2.7 to 3.2 x 10(4) mum(2). After addition of the cytosol extracted from Dictyostelium to the lipid membrane patches, through time-lapse observation with a confocal laser scanning fluorescence microscope, we observed an autonomous buckling of the Dictyostelium lipid patches and localized behaviours of proteins found within. CONCLUSION: The current method serves as the novel technique for the preparation of film patches in which the positions of patches are controlled by the holder pores without fabricating, modifying, and arranging the chemical properties of the solution components of lipids. The findings imply that lipid-binding proteins in the cytosol were adsorbed and accumulated within the Dictyostelium lipid patches, inducing the transformation of the cell-sized patch.

Swer, P. B., et al. (2015). "Overexpression of TOR (target of rapamycin) inhibits cell proliferation in Dictyostelium discoideum." J Basic Microbiol.
	TOR (target of rapamycin) protein kinase acts as a central controller of cell growth and development of an organism. Present study was undertaken to find the expression pattern and role of TOR during growth and development of Dictyostelium discoideum. Failures to generate either knockout and/or knockdown mutants indicate that interference with its levels led to cellular defects. Thus, the effects of TOR (DDB_G0281569) overexpression specifically, cells expressing Dd(Delta211-TOR)-Eyfp mutant was analyzed. Elevated expression of (Delta211-TOR)-Eyfp reduced both cell size and cell proliferation. DdTOR was found to be closer to fungus. mRNA level of TOR was found maximally in the freshly starved/aggregate cells that gradually declined. This was also strengthened by the expression patterns observed by in situ and the analysis of beta-galactosidase reporter driven by the putative TOR promoter. The TOR protein was found to be highest at the aggregate stage. The fusion protein, (Delta211-TOR)-Eyfp was localized to the cell membrane, cytosol, and the nucleus. We suggest, DdTOR to be an essential protein and high TOR expression inhibits cell proliferation.

Swaney, K. F., et al. (2015). "Novel protein Callipygian defines the back of migrating cells." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 112(29): E3845-3854.
	Asymmetric protein localization is essential for cell polarity and migration. We report a novel protein, Callipygian (CynA), which localizes to the lagging edge before other proteins and becomes more tightly restricted as cells polarize; additionally, it accumulates in the cleavage furrow during cytokinesis. CynA protein that is tightly localized, or "clustered," to the cell rear is immobile, but when polarity is disrupted, it disperses throughout the membrane and responds to uniform chemoattractant stimulation by transiently localizing to the cytosol. These behaviors require a pleckstrin homology-domain membrane tether and a WD40 clustering domain, which can also direct other membrane proteins to the back. Fragments of CynA lacking the pleckstrin homology domain, which are normally found in the cytosol, localize to the lagging edge membrane when coexpressed with full-length protein, showing that CynA clustering is mediated by oligomerization. Cells lacking CynA have aberrant lateral protrusions, altered leading-edge morphology, and decreased directional persistence, whereas those overexpressing the protein display exaggerated features of polarity. Consistently, actin polymerization is inhibited at sites of CynA accumulation, thereby restricting protrusions to the opposite edge. We suggest that the mutual antagonism between CynA and regions of responsiveness creates a positive feedback loop that restricts CynA to the rear and contributes to the establishment of the cell axis.

Sun, X., et al. (2015). "Asymmetric nanotopography biases cytoskeletal dynamics and promotes unidirectional cell guidance." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 112(41): 12557-12562.
	Many biological and physiological processes depend upon directed migration of cells, which is typically mediated by chemical or physical gradients or by signal relay. Here we show that cells can be guided in a single preferred direction based solely on local asymmetries in nano/microtopography on subcellular scales. These asymmetries can be repeated, and thereby provide directional guidance, over arbitrarily large areas. The direction and strength of the guidance is sensitive to the details of the nano/microtopography, suggesting that this phenomenon plays a context-dependent role in vivo. We demonstrate that appropriate asymmetric nano/microtopography can unidirectionally bias internal actin polymerization waves and that cells move with the same preferred direction as these waves. This phenomenon is observed both for the pseudopod-dominated migration of the amoeboid Dictyostelium discoideum and for the lamellipod-driven migration of human neutrophils. The conservation of this mechanism across cell types and the asymmetric shape of many natural scaffolds suggest that actin-wave-based guidance is important in biology and physiology.

Sukumaran, S. K., et al. (2015). "The centrosomal component CEP161 of Dictyostelium discoideum interacts with the Hippo signaling pathway." Cell Cycle 14(7): 1024-1035.
	CEP161 is a novel component of the Dictyostelium discoideum centrosome which was identified as binding partner of the pericentriolar component CP250. Here we show that the amino acids 1-763 of the 1381 amino acids CEP161 are sufficient for CP250 binding, centrosomal targeting and centrosome association. Analysis of AX2 cells over-expressing truncated and full length CEP161 proteins revealed defects in growth and development. By immunoprecipitation experiments we identified the Hippo related kinase SvkA (Hrk-svk) as binding partner for CEP161. Both proteins colocalize at the centrosome. In in vitro kinase assays the N-terminal domain of CEP161 (residues 1-763) inhibited the kinase activity of Hrk-svk. A comparison of D. discoideum Hippo kinase mutants with mutants overexpressing CEP161 polypeptides revealed similar defects. We propose that the centrosomal component CEP161 is a novel player in the Hippo signaling pathway and affects various cellular properties through this interaction.

Sugiyama, T., et al. (2015). "Microtubule-Mediated Inositol Lipid Signaling Plays Critical Roles in Regulation of Blebbing." PLoS One 10(8): e0137032.
	Cells migrate by extending pseudopods such as lamellipodia and blebs. Although the signals leading to lamellipodia extension have been extensively investigated, those for bleb extension remain unclear. Here, we investigated signals for blebbing in Dictyostelium cells using a newly developed assay to induce blebbing. When cells were cut into two pieces with a microneedle, the anucleate fragments vigorously extended blebs. This assay enabled us to induce blebbing reproducibly, and analyses of knockout mutants and specific inhibitors identified candidate molecules that regulate blebbing. Blebs were also induced in anucleate fragments of leukocytes, indicating that this assay is generally applicable to animal cells. After cutting, microtubules in the anucleate fragments promptly depolymerized, followed by the extension of blebs. Furthermore, when intact cells were treated with a microtubule inhibitor, they frequently extended blebs. The depolymerization of microtubules induced the delocalization of inositol lipid phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate from the cell membrane. PI3 kinase-null cells frequently extended blebs, whereas PTEN-null cells extended fewer blebs. From these observations, we propose a model in which microtubules play a critical role in bleb regulation via inositol lipid metabolism.

Sugden, C., et al. (2015). "The Dictyostelium prestalk inducer differentiation-inducing factor-1 (DIF-1) triggers unexpectedly complex global phosphorylation changes." Mol Biol Cell 26(4): 805-820.
	Differentiation-inducing factor-1 (DIF-1) is a polyketide that induces Dictyostelium amoebae to differentiate as prestalk cells. We performed a global quantitative screen for phosphorylation changes that occur within the first minutes after addition of DIF-1, using a triple-label SILAC approach. This revealed a new world of DIF-1-controlled signaling, with changes in components of the MAPK and protein kinase B signaling pathways, components of the actinomyosin cytoskeletal signaling networks, and a broad range of small GTPases and their regulators. The results also provide evidence that the Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent phosphatase calcineurin plays a role in DIF-1 signaling to the DimB prestalk transcription factor. At the global level, DIF-1 causes a major shift in the phosphorylation/dephosphorylation equilibrium toward net dephosphorylation. Of interest, many of the sites that are dephosphorylated in response to DIF-1 are phosphorylated in response to extracellular cAMP signaling. This accords with studies that suggest an antagonism between the two inducers and also with the rapid dephosphorylation of the cAMP receptor that we observe in response to DIF-1 and with the known inhibitory effect of DIF-1 on chemotaxis to cAMP. All MS data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD001555.

Srivastava, V. and D. N. Robinson (2015). "Mechanical stress and network structure drive protein dynamics during cytokinesis." Curr Biol 25(5): 663-670.
	Cell-shape changes associated with processes like cytokinesis and motility proceed on several-second timescales but are derived from molecular events, including protein-protein interactions, filament assembly, and force generation by molecular motors, all of which occur much faster [1-4]. Therefore, defining the dynamics of such molecular machinery is critical for understanding cell-shape regulation. In addition to signaling pathways, mechanical stresses also direct cytoskeletal protein accumulation [5-7]. A myosin-II-based mechanosensory system controls cellular contractility and shape during cytokinesis and under applied stress [6, 8]. In Dictyostelium, this system tunes myosin II accumulation by feedback through the actin network, particularly through the crosslinker cortexillin I. Cortexillin-binding IQGAPs are major regulators of this system. Here, we defined the short timescale dynamics of key cytoskeletal proteins during cytokinesis and under mechanical stress, using fluorescence recovery after photobleaching and fluorescence correlation spectroscopy, to examine the dynamic interplay between these proteins. Equatorially enriched proteins including cortexillin I, IQGAP2, and myosin II recovered much more slowly than actin and polar crosslinkers. The mobility of equatorial proteins was greatly reduced at the furrow compared to the interphase cortex, suggesting their stabilization during cytokinesis. This mobility shift did not arise from a single biochemical event, but rather from a global inhibition of protein dynamics by mechanical-stress-associated changes in the cytoskeletal structure. Mechanical tuning of contractile protein dynamics provides robustness to the cytoskeletal framework responsible for regulating cell shape and contributes to cytokinesis fidelity.

Srivastava, V., et al. (2015). "Cytokinesis: Robust cell shape regulation." Semin Cell Dev Biol.
	Cytokinesis, the final step of cell division, is a great example of robust cell shape regulation. A wide variety of cells ranging from the unicellular Dictyostelium to human cells in tissues proceed through highly similar, stereotypical cell shape changes during cell division. Typically, cells first round up forming a cleavage furrow in the middle, which constricts resulting in the formation of two daughter cells. Tight control of cytokinesis is essential for proper segregation of genetic and cellular materials, and its failure is deleterious to cell viability. Thus, biological systems have developed elaborate mechanisms to ensure high fidelity of cytokinesis, including the existence of multiple biochemical and mechanical pathways regulated through feedback. In this review, we focus on the built-in redundancy of the cytoskeletal machinery that allows cells to divide successfully in a variety of biological and mechanical contexts. Using Dictyostelium cytokinesis as an example, we demonstrate that the crosstalk between biochemical and mechanical signaling through feedback ensures correct assembly and function of the cell division machinery.

Song, Y., et al. (2015). "c-di-GMP induction of Dictyostelium cell death requires the polyketide DIF-1." Mol Biol Cell 26(4): 651-658.
	Cell death in the model organism Dictyostelium, as studied in monolayers in vitro, can be induced by the polyketide DIF-1 or by the cyclical dinucleotide c-di-GMP. c-di-GMP, a universal bacterial second messenger, can trigger innate immunity in bacterially infected animal cells and is involved in developmental cell death in Dictyostelium. We show here that c-di-GMP was not sufficient to induce cell death in Dictyostelium cell monolayers. Unexpectedly, it also required the DIF-1 polyketide. The latter could be exogenous, as revealed by a telling synergy between c-di-GMP and DIF-1. The required DIF-1 polyketide could also be endogenous, as shown by the inability of c-di-GMP to induce cell death in Dictyostelium HMX44A cells and DH1 cells upon pharmacological or genetic inhibition of DIF-1 biosynthesis. In these cases, c-di-GMP-induced cell death was rescued by complementation with exogenous DIF-1. Taken together, these results demonstrated that c-di-GMP could trigger cell death in Dictyostelium only in the presence of the DIF-1 polyketide or its metabolites. This identified another element of control to this cell death and perhaps also to c-di-GMP effects in other situations and organisms.

Skruzny, M., et al. (2015). "An organized co-assembly of clathrin adaptors is essential for endocytosis." Dev Cell 33(2): 150-162.
	Clathrin-mediated endocytosis, the main trafficking route from the plasma membrane to the cytoplasm, is critical to many fundamental cellular processes. Clathrin, coupled to the membrane by adaptor proteins, is thought to play a major structural role in endocytosis by self-assembling into a cage-like lattice around the forming vesicle. Although clathrin adaptors are essential for endocytosis, little is known about their structural role in this process. Here we show that the membrane-binding domains of two conserved clathrin adaptors, Sla2 and Ent1, co-assemble in a PI(4,5)P2-dependent manner to form organized lattices on membranes. We determined the structure of the co-assembled lattice by electron cryo-microscopy and designed mutations that specifically impair the lattice formation in vitro. We show that these mutations block endocytosis in vivo. We suggest that clathrin adaptors not only link the polymerized clathrin to the membrane but also form an oligomeric structure, which is essential for membrane remodeling during endocytosis.

Skataric, M., et al. (2015). "Fundamental limitation of the instantaneous approximation in fold-change detection models." IET Syst Biol 9(1): 1-15.
	The phenomenon of fold-change detection, or scale-invariance, is exhibited by a variety of sensory systems, in both bacterial and eukaryotic signalling pathways. It has been often remarked in the systems biology literature that certain systems whose output variables respond at a faster time scale than internal components give rise to an approximate scale-invariant behaviour, allowing approximate fold-change detection in stimuli. This study establishes a fundamental limitation of such a mechanism, showing that there is a minimal fold-change detection error that cannot be overcome, no matter how large the separation of time scales is. To illustrate this theoretically predicted limitation, the authors discuss two common biomolecular network motifs, an incoherent feedforward loop and a feedback system, as well as a published model of the chemotaxis signalling pathway of Dictyostelium discoideum.

Sivaramakrishnan, V. and S. J. Fountain (2015). "Evidence for Extracellular ATP as a Stress Signal in a Single-Celled Organism." Eukaryot Cell 14(8): 775-782.
	ATP is omnipresent in biology and acts as an extracellular signaling molecule in mammals. Information regarding the signaling function of extracellular ATP in single-celled eukaryotes is lacking. Here, we explore the role of extracellular ATP in cell volume recovery during osmotic swelling in the amoeba Dictyostelium. Release of micromolar ATP could be detected during cell swelling and regulatory cell volume decrease (RVD) phases during hypotonic challenge. Scavenging ATP with apyrase caused profound cell swelling and loss of RVD. Apyrase-induced swelling could be rescued by 100 muM betagamma-imidoATP. N-Ethylmalemide (NEM), an inhibitor of vesicular exocytosis, caused heightened cell swelling, loss of RVD, and inhibition of ATP release. Amoebas with impaired contractile vacuole (CV) fusion (drainin knockout [KO] cells) displayed increased swelling but intact ATP release. One hundred micromolar Gd(3+) caused cell swelling while blocking any recovery by betagamma-imidoATP. ATP release was 4-fold higher in the presence of Gd(3+). Cell swelling was associated with an increase in intracellular nitric oxide (NO), with NO-scavenging agents causing cell swelling. Swelling-induced NO production was inhibited by both apyrase and Gd(3+), while NO donors rescued apyrase- and Gd(3+)-induced swelling. These data suggest extracellular ATP released during cell swelling is an important signal that elicits RVD. Though the cell surface receptor for ATP in Dictyostelium remains elusive, we suggest ATP operates through a Gd(3+)-sensitive receptor that is coupled with intracellular NO production.

Simon, S. and H. Hilbi (2015). "Subversion of Cell-Autonomous Immunity and Cell Migration by Legionella pneumophila Effectors." Front Immunol 6: 447.
	Bacteria trigger host defense and inflammatory processes, such as cytokine production, pyroptosis, and the chemotactic migration of immune cells toward the source of infection. However, a number of pathogens interfere with these immune functions by producing specific so-called "effector" proteins, which are delivered to host cells via dedicated secretion systems. Air-borne Legionella pneumophila bacteria trigger an acute and potential fatal inflammation in the lung termed Legionnaires' disease. The opportunistic pathogen L. pneumophila is a natural parasite of free-living amoebae, but also replicates in alveolar macrophages and accidentally infects humans. The bacteria employ the intracellular multiplication/defective for organelle trafficking (Icm/Dot) type IV secretion system and as many as 300 different effector proteins to govern host-cell interactions and establish in phagocytes an intracellular replication niche, the Legionella-containing vacuole. Some Icm/Dot-translocated effector proteins target cell-autonomous immunity or cell migration, i.e., they interfere with (i) endocytic, secretory, or retrograde vesicle trafficking pathways, (ii) organelle or cell motility, (iii) the inflammasome and programed cell death, or (iv) the transcription factor NF-kappaB. Here, we review recent mechanistic insights into the subversion of cellular immune functions by L. pneumophila.

Shou, W. (2015). "Acknowledging selection at sub-organismal levels resolves controversy on pro-cooperation mechanisms." Elife 4.
	Cooperators who pay a cost to produce publically-available benefits can be exploited by cheaters who do not contribute fairly. How might cooperation persist against cheaters? Two classes of mechanisms are known to promote cooperation: 'partner choice', where a cooperator preferentially interacts with cooperative over cheating partners; and 'partner fidelity feedback' (PFF), where repeated interactions between individuals ensure that cheaters suffer as their cooperative partners languish (see, for example, Momeni et al., 2013). However when both mechanisms can act, differentiating them has generated controversy. Here, I resolve this controversy by noting that selection can operate on organismal and sub-organismal 'entities' such that partner fidelity feedback at sub-organismal level can appear as partner choice at organismal level. I also show that cooperation between multicellular eukaryotes and mitochondria is promoted by partner fidelity feedback and partner choice between sub-organismal entities, in addition to being promoted by partner fidelity feedback between hosts and symbionts, as was previously known.

Sheikh, M. O., et al. (2015). "Glycosylation of Skp1 Promotes Formation of Skp1-Cullin-1-F-box Protein Complexes in Dictyostelium." Mol Cell Proteomics 14(1): 66-80.
	O2 sensing in diverse protozoa depends on the prolyl 4 hydroxylation of Skp1 and modification of the resulting hydroxyproline with a series of five sugars. In yeast, plants, and animals, Skp1 is associated with F-box proteins. The Skp1-F-box protein heterodimer can, for many F-box proteins, dock onto cullin-1 en route to assembly of the Skp1-cullin-1-F-box protein-Rbx1 subcomplex of E3(SCF)Ub ligases. E3(SCF)Ub ligases conjugate Lys48-polyubiquitin chains onto targets bound to the substrate receptor domains of F-box proteins, preparing them for recognition by the 26S proteasome. In the social amoeba Dictyostelium, we found that O2 availability was rate-limiting for the hydroxylation of newly synthesized Skp1. To investigate the effect of reduced hydroxylation, we analyzed knockout mutants of the Skp1 prolyl hydroxylase and each of the Skp1 glycosyltransferases. Proteomic analysis of co-immunoprecipitates showed that wild-type cells able to fully glycosylate Skp1 had a greater abundance of an SCF complex containing the cullin-1 homolog CulE and FbxD, a newly described WD40-type F-box protein, than the complexes that predominate in cells defective in Skp1 hydroxylation or glycosylation. Similarly, the previously described FbxA-Skp1CulA complex was also more abundant in glycosylation-competent cells. The CulE interactome also included higher levels of proteasomal regulatory particles when Skp1 was glycosylated, suggesting increased activity consistent with greater association with F-box proteins. Finally, the interactome of FLAG-FbxD was modified when it harbored an F-box mutation that compromised Skp1 binding, consistent with an effect on the abundance of potential substrate proteins. We propose that O2-dependent posttranslational glycosylation of Skp1 promotes association with F-box proteins and their engagement in functional E3(SCF)Ub ligases that regulate O2-dependent developmental progression.

Sgro, A. E., et al. (2015). "From intracellular signaling to population oscillations: bridging size- and time-scales in collective behavior." Mol Syst Biol 11(1): 779.
	Collective behavior in cellular populations is coordinated by biochemical signaling networks within individual cells. Connecting the dynamics of these intracellular networks to the population phenomena they control poses a considerable challenge because of network complexity and our limited knowledge of kinetic parameters. However, from physical systems, we know that behavioral changes in the individual constituents of a collectively behaving system occur in a limited number of well-defined classes, and these can be described using simple models. Here, we apply such an approach to the emergence of collective oscillations in cellular populations of the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum. Through direct tests of our model with quantitative in vivo measurements of single-cell and population signaling dynamics, we show how a simple model can effectively describe a complex molecular signaling network at multiple size and temporal scales. The model predicts novel noise-driven single-cell and population-level signaling phenomena that we then experimentally observe. Our results suggest that like physical systems, collective behavior in biology may be universal and described using simple mathematical models.

Schwebs, D. J. and J. A. Hadwiger (2015). "The Dictyostelium MAPK ERK1 is phosphorylated in a secondary response to early developmental signaling." Cell Signal 27(1): 147-155.
	Previous reports have suggested that the two mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) in Dictyostelium discoideum, ERK1 and ERK2, can be directly activated in response to external cAMP even though these MAPKs play different roles in the developmental life cycle. To better characterize MAPK regulation, the levels of phosphorylated MAPKs were analyzed in response to external signals. Only ERK2 was rapidly phosphorylated in response to the chemoattractants, cAMP and folate. In contrast, the phosphorylation of ERK1 occurred as a secondary or indirect response to these stimuli and this phosphorylation was enhanced by cell-cell interactions, suggesting that other external signals can activate ERK1. The phosphorylation of ERK1 or ERK2 did not require the function of the other MAPK in these responses. Folate stimulation of a chimeric population of erk1- and galpha4- cells revealed that the phosphorylation of ERK1 could be mediated through an intercellular signal other than folate. Loss of ERK1 function suppressed the developmental delay and the deficiency in anterior cell localization associated with galpha5- mutants suggesting that ERK1 function can be down regulated through Galpha5 subunit-mediated signaling. However, no major changes in the phosphorylation of ERK1 were observed in galpha5- cells suggesting that the Galpha5 subunit signaling pathway does not regulate the phosphorylation of ERK1. These findings suggest that the activation of ERK1 occurs as a secondary response to chemoattractants and that other cell-cell signaling mechanisms contribute to this activation. Galpha5 subunit signaling can down regulate ERK1 function to promote prestalk cell development but not through major changes to the level of phosphorylated ERK1.

Schmith, A., et al. (2015). "A host factor supports retrotransposition of the TRE5-A population in Dictyostelium cells by suppressing an Argonaute protein." Mob DNA 6: 14.
	BACKGROUND: In the compact and haploid genome of Dictyostelium discoideum control of transposon activity is of particular importance to maintain viability. The non-long terminal repeat retrotransposon TRE5-A amplifies continuously in D. discoideum cells even though it produces considerable amounts of minus-strand (antisense) RNA in the presence of an active RNA interference machinery. Removal of the host-encoded C-module-binding factor (CbfA) from D. discoideum cells resulted in a more than 90 % reduction of both plus- and minus-strand RNA of TRE5-A and a strong decrease of the retrotransposition activity of the cellular TRE5-A population. Transcriptome analysis revealed an approximately 230-fold overexpression of the gene coding for the Argonaute-like protein AgnC in a CbfA-depleted mutant. RESULTS: The D. discoideum genome contains orthologs of RNA-dependent RNA polymerases, Dicer-like proteins, and Argonaute proteins that are supposed to represent RNA interference pathways. We analyzed available mutants in these genes for altered expression of TRE5-A. We found that the retrotransposon was overexpressed in mutants lacking the Argonaute proteins AgnC and AgnE. Because the agnC gene is barely expressed in wild-type cells, probably due to repression by CbfA, we employed a new method of promoter-swapping to overexpress agnC in a CbfA-independent manner. In these strains we established an in vivo retrotransposition assay that determines the retrotransposition frequency of the cellular TRE5-A population. We observed that both the TRE5-A steady-state RNA level and retrotransposition rate dropped to less than 10 % of wild-type in the agnC overexpressor strains. CONCLUSIONS: The data suggest that TRE5-A amplification is controlled by a distinct pathway of the Dictyostelium RNA interference machinery that does not require RNA-dependent RNA polymerases but involves AgnC. This control is at least partially overcome by the activity of CbfA, a factor derived from the retrotransposon's host. This unusual regulation of mobile element activity most likely had a profound effect on genome evolution in D. discoideum.

Sarris, M. and M. Sixt (2015). "Navigating in tissue mazes: chemoattractant interpretation in complex environments." Curr Opin Cell Biol 36: 93-102.
	Guided cell movement is essential for development and integrity of animals and crucially involved in cellular immune responses. Leukocytes are professional migratory cells that can navigate through most types of tissues and sense a wide range of directional cues. The responses of these cells to attractants have been mainly explored in tissue culture settings. How leukocytes make directional decisions in situ, within the challenging environment of a tissue maze, is less understood. Here we review recent advances in how leukocytes sense chemical cues in complex tissue settings and make links with paradigms of directed migration in development and Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae.

Santhanam, B., et al. (2015). "The GATA transcription factor GtaC regulates early developmental gene expression dynamics in Dictyostelium." Nat Commun 6: 7551.
	In many systems, including the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum, development is often marked by dynamic morphological and transcriptional changes orchestrated by key transcription factors. However, efforts to examine sequential genome-wide changes of gene regulation in developmental processes have been fairly limited. Here we report the developmental regulatory dynamics of GtaC, a GATA-type zinc-finger transcription factor, through the analyses of serial ChIP- and RNA-sequencing data. GtaC is essential for developmental progression, decoding extracellular cAMP pulses during early development and may play a role in mediating cell-type differentiation at later stages. We find that GtaC exhibits temporally distinctive DNA-binding patterns concordant with each developmental stage. We identify direct GtaC targets and observe cotemporaneous GtaC-binding and developmental expression regulation. Our results suggest that GtaC regulates multiple physiological processes as Dictyostelium transitions from a group of unicellular amoebae to an integrated multicellular organism.

Santarriaga, S., et al. (2015). "The Social Amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum Is Highly Resistant to Polyglutamine Aggregation." J Biol Chem 290(42): 25571-25578.
	The expression, misfolding, and aggregation of long repetitive amino acid tracts are a major contributing factor in a number of neurodegenerative diseases, including C9ORF72 amyotrophic lateral sclerosis/frontotemporal dementia, fragile X tremor ataxia syndrome, myotonic dystrophy type 1, spinocerebellar ataxia type 8, and the nine polyglutamine diseases. Protein aggregation is a hallmark of each of these diseases. In model organisms, including yeast, worms, flies, mice, rats, and human cells, expression of proteins with the long repetitive amino acid tracts associated with these diseases recapitulates the protein aggregation that occurs in human disease. Here we show that the model organism Dictyostelium discoideum has evolved to normally encode long polyglutamine tracts and express these proteins in a soluble form. We also show that Dictyostelium has the capacity to suppress aggregation of a polyglutamine-expanded Huntingtin construct that aggregates in other model organisms tested. Together, these data identify Dictyostelium as a novel model organism with the capacity to suppress aggregation of proteins with long polyglutamine tracts.

Saheb, E., et al. (2015). "Abnormalities of Endocytosis, Phagocytosis, and Development Process in Dictyostelium Cells That Over-Express Acanthamoeba castellanii Metacaspase Protein." Iran J Parasitol 10(2): 213-229.
	BACKGROUND: Acanthamoeba castellanii forms a resistant cyst that protects the parasite against the host's immune response. Acanthamoeba Type-I metacaspase (Acmcp) is a caspase-like protein that has been found to be expressed during the encystations. Dictyostelium discoideum is an organism closely related to Acanthamoeba useful for studying the molecular function of this protozoan caspase-like protein. METHODS: The full length of Acmcp and a mutated version of the same gene, which lacks the proline rich N-terminal region (Acmcp-dpr), were cloned into the pDneo2a-GFP vector separately. The pDneo2a-GFP-Acmcp and pDneo2a-GFPAcmcp-dpr were electro-transfected into wild type D. discoideum cells to create cell lines that over-expressed Acmcp or Acmcp-dpr. RESULTS: Both cell lines that over-expressed Acmcp and Acmcp-dpr showed a significant increase in the fluid phase internalization and phagocytosis rate compared to the control cells. Additionally, the cells expressing the Acmcp-dpr mutant were unable to initiate early development and failed to aggregate or form fruiting bodies under starvation conditions, whereas Acmcp over-expressing cells showed the opposite phenomena. Quantitative cell death analysis provided additional support for these findings. CONCLUSION: Acmcp is involved in the processes of endocytosis and phagocytosis. In addition, the proline rich region in Acmcp is important for cellular development in Dictyostelium. Given its important role in the development process, metacaspase protein is proposed as a candidate drug target against infections caused by A. castellanii.

Roth, H., et al. (2015). "Balanced cortical stiffness is important for efficient migration of Dictyostelium cells in confined environments." Biochem Biophys Res Commun 467(4): 730-735.
	Dictyostelium discoideum cells resemble in many aspects human leukocytes and serve as a model to study actin cytoskeleton dynamics and cell migration of highly motile cells. Dictyostelium cells deficient in the actin-binding protein filamin (ddFLN) showed a surprisingly subtle change in phenotype with no or only minor effects in single cell motility. These findings were in contrast to the strong actin-crosslinking activities measured for filamin in vitro. In the present study, we set out to revisit the role of ddFLN in cell migration. For this purpose, we examined migration of wild-type, ddFLN-null and ddFLN-overexpressing cells under different conditions. In addition to cyclic-AMP chemotaxis assays using micropipettes, we explored cell migration under more confined conditions: an under-agarose 2D assay and a 3D assay employing a collagen matrix that was adapted from assays for leukocytes. Using 3D migration conditions, cells deficient in ddFLN displayed only a minor impairment of motility, similar to the results obtained for migration in 2D. However, cells overexpressing ddFLN showed a remarkable decrease in the speed of migration in particular in 3D environments. We suggest that these results are in line with an increased stiffening of the cortex due to the crosslinking activity of overexpressed ddFLN. Our conclusion is that the absolute level of ddFLN is critical for efficient migration. Furthermore, our results show that under conditions of increased mechanical stress, Dictyostelium cells, like leukocytes, switch to a bleb-based mode of movement.

Rosengarten, R. D., et al. (2015). "Leaps and lulls in the developmental transcriptome of Dictyostelium discoideum." BMC Genomics 16: 294.
	BACKGROUND: Development of the soil amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum is triggered by starvation. When placed on a solid substrate, the starving solitary amoebae cease growth, communicate via extracellular cAMP, aggregate by tens of thousands and develop into multicellular organisms. Early phases of the developmental program are often studied in cells starved in suspension while cAMP is provided exogenously. Previous studies revealed massive shifts in the transcriptome under both developmental conditions and a close relationship between gene expression and morphogenesis, but were limited by the sampling frequency and the resolution of the methods. RESULTS: Here, we combine the superior depth and specificity of RNA-seq-based analysis of mRNA abundance with high frequency sampling during filter development and cAMP pulsing in suspension. We found that the developmental transcriptome exhibits mostly gradual changes interspersed by a few instances of large shifts. For each time point we treated the entire transcriptome as single phenotype, and were able to characterize development as groups of similar time points separated by gaps. The grouped time points represented gradual changes in mRNA abundance, or molecular phenotype, and the gaps represented times during which many genes are differentially expressed rapidly, and thus the phenotype changes dramatically. Comparing developmental experiments revealed that gene expression in filter developed cells lagged behind those treated with exogenous cAMP in suspension. The high sampling frequency revealed many genes whose regulation is reproducibly more complex than indicated by previous studies. Gene Ontology enrichment analysis suggested that the transition to multicellularity coincided with rapid accumulation of transcripts associated with DNA processes and mitosis. Later development included the up-regulation of organic signaling molecules and co-factor biosynthesis. Our analysis also demonstrated a high level of synchrony among the developing structures throughout development. CONCLUSIONS: Our data describe D. discoideum development as a series of coordinated cellular and multicellular activities. Coordination occurred within fields of aggregating cells and among multicellular bodies, such as mounds or migratory slugs that experience both cell-cell contact and various soluble signaling regimes. These time courses, sampled at the highest temporal resolution to date in this system, provide a comprehensive resource for studies of developmental gene expression.

Rosengarten, R. D., et al. (2015). "A deep coverage Dictyostelium discoideum genomic DNA library replicates stably in Escherichia coli." Genomics 106(4): 249-255.
	The natural history of the amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum has inspired scientific inquiry for seventy-five years. A genetically tractable haploid eukaryote, D. discoideum appeals as a laboratory model as well. However, certain rote molecular genetic tasks, such as PCR and cloning, are difficult due to the AT-richness and low complexity of its genome. Here we report on the construction of a ~20 fold coverage D. discoideum genomic library in Escherichia coli, cloning 4-10 kilobase partial restriction fragments into a linear vector. End-sequencing indicates that most clones map to the six chromosomes in an unbiased distribution. Over 70% of these clones contain at least one complete open reading frame. We demonstrate that individual clones and library composition are stable over multiple replication cycles. Our library will enable numerous molecular biological applications and the completion of additional species' genome sequences, and suggests a path towards the long-elusive goal of genetic complementation.

Rodriguez-Ruiz, A., et al. (2015). "Scenario-targeted toxicity assessment through multiple endpoint bioassays in a soil posing unacceptable environmental risk according to regulatory screening values." Environ Sci Pollut Res Int 22(17): 13344-13361.
	Lanestosa is a chronically polluted site (derelict mine) where the soil (Lanestosa (LA) soil) exceeds screening values (SVs) of regulatory policies in force (Basque Country; Europe) for Zn, Pb and Cd. A scenario-targeted toxicity assessment was carried out on the basis of a multi-endpoint bioassay approach. Acute and chronic toxicity bioassays were conducted with selected test species (Vibrio fischeri, Dictyostelium discoideum, Lactuca sativa, Raphanus sativus and Eisenia fetida) in combination with chemical analysis of soils and elutriates and with bioaccumulation studies in earthworms. Besides, the toxicity profile was compared with that of the mine runoff (RO) soil and of a fresh artificially polluted soil (LAAPS) resembling LA soil pollutant profile. Extractability studies in LA soil revealed that Pb, Zn and Cd were highly available for exchange and/or release into the environment. Indeed, Pb and Zn were accumulated in earthworms and LA soil resulted to be toxic. Soil respiration, V. fischeri, vegetative and developmental cycles of D. discoideum and survival and juvenile production of E. fetida were severely affected. These results confirmed that LA soil had unacceptable environmental risk and demanded intervention. In contrast, although Pb and Zn concentrations in RO soil revealed also unacceptable risk, both metal extractability and toxicity were much lower than in LA soil. Thus, within the polluted site, the need for intervention varied between areas that posed dissimilar risk. Besides, since LAAPS, with a high exchangeable metal fraction, was the most toxic, ageing under in situ natural conditions seemingly contributed to attenuate LA soil risk. As a whole, combining multi-endpoint bioassays with scenario-targeted analysis (including leaching and ageing) provides reliable risk assessment in soils posing unacceptable environmental risk according to SVs, which is useful to optimise the required intervention measures.

Rodriguez-Ruiz, A., et al. (2015). "Toxicity assessment of diesel and metal contaminated soils through elutriate and solid phase assays with the slime mould, Dictyostelium discoideum." Environ Toxicol Chem.
	A suite of organisms from different taxonomical and ecological positions are needed to assess environmentally relevant soil toxicity. We herein present a new bioassay based on Dictyostelium that is aimed at integrating slime moulds into such a testing framework. Toxicity tests on elutriates and the solid phase developmental cycle (DDDC) assay were successfully applied to a soil spiked with a mixture of Zn, Cd and diesel fuel freshly prepared (RC) and after 2 yr ageing (AC). The elutriates of both soils provoked toxic effects but toxicity was markedly lower in the aged soil. In the DDDC assay both soils affected amoeba viability and aggregation, with fewer multicellular units, smaller fruiting bodies and, overall, inhibition of fruiting body formation. This assay is quick and requires small amounts of test soil, which might facilitate its incorporation into a multispecies multiple-endpoint toxicity bioassay battery suitable for environmental risk assessment in soils. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

Rodriguez Pino, M., et al. (2015). "PP2A/B56 and GSK3/Ras suppress PKB activity during Dictyostelium chemotaxis." Mol Biol Cell 26(24): 4347-4357.
	We have previously shown that the Dictyostelium protein phosphatase 2A regulatory subunit B56, encoded by psrA, modulates Dictyostelium cell differentiation through negatively affecting glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK3) function. Our follow-up research uncovered that B56 preferentially associated with GDP forms of RasC and RasD, but not with RasG in vitro, and psrA(-) cells displayed inefficient activation of multiple Ras species, decreased random motility, and inefficient chemotaxis toward cAMP and folic acid gradient. Surprisingly, psrA(-) cells displayed aberrantly high basal and poststimulus phosphorylation of Dictyostelium protein kinase B (PKB) kinase family member PKBR1 and PKB substrates. Expression of constitutively active Ras mutants or inhibition of GSK3 in psrA(-) cells increased activities of both PKBR1 and PKBA, but only the PKBR1 activity was increased in wild-type cells under the equivalent conditions, indicating that either B56- or GSK3-mediated suppressive mechanism is sufficient to maintain low PKBA activity, but both mechanisms are necessary for suppressing PKBR1. Finally, cells lacking RasD or RasC displayed normal PKBR1 regulation under GSK3-inhibiting conditions, indicating that RasC or RasD proteins are essential for GSK3-mediated PKBR1 inhibition. In summary, B56 constitutes inhibitory circuits for PKBA and PKBR1 and thus heavily affects Dictyostelium chemotaxis.

Raman, S. and K. Suguna (2015). "Functional characterization of heat-shock protein 90 from Oryza sativa and crystal structure of its N-terminal domain." Acta Crystallogr F Struct Biol Commun 71(Pt 6): 688-696.
	Heat-shock protein 90 (Hsp90) is an ATP-dependent molecular chaperone that is essential for the normal functioning of eukaryotic cells. It plays crucial roles in cell signalling, cell-cycle control and in maintaining proteome integrity and protein homeostasis. In plants, Hsp90s are required for normal plant growth and development. Hsp90s are observed to be upregulated in response to various abiotic and biotic stresses and are also involved in immune responses in plants. Although there are several studies elucidating the physiological role of Hsp90s in plants, their molecular mechanism of action is still unclear. In this study, biochemical characterization of an Hsp90 protein from rice (Oryza sativa; OsHsp90) has been performed and the crystal structure of its N-terminal domain (OsHsp90-NTD) was determined. The binding of OsHsp90 to its substrate ATP and the inhibitor 17-AAG was studied by fluorescence spectroscopy. The protein also exhibited a weak ATPase activity. The crystal structure of OsHsp90-NTD was solved in complex with the nonhydrolyzable ATP analogue AMPPCP at 3.1 A resolution. The domain was crystallized by cross-seeding with crystals of the N-terminal domain of Hsp90 from Dictyostelium discoideum, which shares 70% sequence identity with OsHsp90-NTD. This is the second reported structure of a domain of Hsp90 from a plant source.

Ramalingam, N., et al. (2015). "A resilient formin-derived cortical actin meshwork in the rear drives actomyosin-based motility in 2D confinement." Nat Commun 6: 8496.
	Cell migration is driven by the establishment of disparity between the cortical properties of the softer front and the more rigid rear allowing front extension and actomyosin-based rear contraction. However, how the cortical actin meshwork in the rear is generated remains elusive. Here we identify the mDia1-like formin A (ForA) from Dictyostelium discoideum that generates a subset of filaments as the basis of a resilient cortical actin sheath in the rear. Mechanical resistance of this actin compartment is accomplished by actin crosslinkers and IQGAP-related proteins, and is mandatory to withstand the increased contractile forces in response to mechanical stress by impeding unproductive blebbing in the rear, allowing efficient cell migration in two-dimensional-confined environments. Consistently, ForA supresses the formation of lateral protrusions, rapidly relocalizes to new prospective ends in repolarizing cells and is required for cortical integrity. Finally, we show that ForA utilizes the phosphoinositide gradients in polarized cells for subcellular targeting.

Rainey, P. B. (2015). "Precarious development: the uncertain social life of cellular slime molds." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 112(9): 2639-2640.
	
Purkanti, R. and M. Thattai (2015). "Ancient dynamin segments capture early stages of host-mitochondrial integration." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 112(9): 2800-2805.
	Eukaryotic cells use dynamins-mechano-chemical GTPases--to drive the division of endosymbiotic organelles. Here we probe early steps of mitochondrial and chloroplast endosymbiosis by tracing the evolution of dynamins. We develop a parsimony-based phylogenetic method for protein sequence reconstruction, with deep time resolution. Using this, we demonstrate that dynamins diversify through the punctuated transformation of sequence segments on the scale of secondary-structural elements. We find examples of segments that have remained essentially unchanged from the 1.8-billion-y-old last eukaryotic common ancestor to the present day. Stitching these together, we reconstruct three ancestral dynamins: The first is nearly identical to the ubiquitous mitochondrial division dynamins of extant eukaryotes, the second is partially preserved in the myxovirus-resistance--like dynamins of metazoans, and the third gives rise to the cytokinetic dynamins of amoebozoans and plants and to chloroplast division dynamins. The reconstructed sequences, combined with evolutionary models and published functional data, suggest that the ancestral mitochondrial division dynamin also mediated vesicle scission. This bifunctional protein duplicated into specialized mitochondrial and vesicle variants at least three independent times--in alveolates, green algae, and the ancestor of fungi and metazoans-accompanied by the loss of the ancient prokaryotic mitochondrial division protein FtsZ. Remarkably, many extant species that retain FtsZ also retain the predicted ancestral bifunctional dynamin. The mitochondrial division apparatus of such organisms, including amoebozoans, red algae, and stramenopiles, seems preserved in a near-primordial form.

Priet, S., et al. (2015). "Enzymatic synthesis of acyclic nucleoside thiophosphonate diphosphates: effect of the alpha-phosphorus configuration on HIV-1 RT activity." Antiviral Res 117: 122-131.
	The acyclic nucleosides thiophosphonates (9-[2-(thiophosphonomethoxy)ethyl]adenine (S-PMEA) and (R)-9-[2-(thiophosphonomethoxy)propyl]adenine (S-PMPA), exhibit antiviral activity against HIV-1, -2 and HBV. Their diphosphate forms S-PMEApp and S-PMPApp, synthesized as stereoisomeric mixture, are potent inhibitors of wild-type (WT) HIV-1 RT. Understanding HIV-1 RT stereoselectivity, however, awaits resolution of the diphosphate forms into defined stereoisomers. To this aim, thiophosphonate monophosphates S-PMEAp and S-PMPAp were synthesized and used in a stereocontrolled enzyme-catalyzed phosphoryl transfer reaction involving either nucleoside diphosphate kinase (NDPK) or creatine kinase (CK) to obtain thiophosphonate diphosphates as separated isomers. We then quantified substrate preference of recombinant WT HIV-1 RT toward pure stereoisomers using in vitro steady-state kinetic analyses. The crystal structure of a complex between Dictyostelium NDPK and S-PMPApp at 2.32A allowed to determine the absolute configuration at the alpha-phosphorus atom in relation to the stereo-preference of studied enzymes. The RP isomer of S-PMPApp and S-PMEApp are the preferred substrate over SP for both NDPK and HIV-1 RT.

Poulter, R. T. and M. I. Butler (2015). "Tyrosine Recombinase Retrotransposons and Transposons." Microbiol Spectr 3(2): Mdna3-0036-2014.
	Retrotransposons carrying tyrosine recombinases (YR) are widespread in eukaryotes. The first described tyrosine recombinase mobile element, DIRS1, is a retroelement from the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. The YR elements are bordered by terminal repeats related to their replication via free circular dsDNA intermediates. Site-specific recombination is believed to integrate the circle without creating duplications of the target sites. Recently a large number of YR retrotransposons have been described, including elements from fungi (mucorales and basidiomycetes), plants (green algae) and a wide range of animals including nematodes, insects, sea urchins, fish, amphibia and reptiles. YR retrotransposons can be divided into three major groups: the DIRS elements, PAT-like and the Ngaro elements. The three groups form distinct clades on phylogenetic trees based on alignments of reverse transcriptase/ribonuclease H (RT/RH) and YR sequences, and also having some structural distinctions. A group of eukaryote DNA transposons, cryptons, also carry tyrosine recombinases. These DNA transposons do not encode a reverse transcriptase. They have been detected in several pathogenic fungi and oomycetes. Sequence comparisons suggest that the crypton YRs are related to those of the YR retrotransposons. We suggest that the YR retrotransposons arose from the combination of a crypton-like YR DNA transposon and the RT/RH encoding sequence of a retrotransposon. This acquisition must have occurred at a very early point in the evolution of eukaryotes.

Plaza, G. R., et al. (2015). "Study of the influence of actin-binding proteins using linear analyses of cell deformability." Soft Matter 11(27): 5435-5446.
	The actin cytoskeleton plays a key role in the deformability of the cell and in mechanosensing. Here we analyze the contributions of three major actin cross-linking proteins, myosin II, alpha-actinin and filamin, to cell deformability, by using micropipette aspiration of Dictyostelium cells. We examine the applicability of three simple mechanical models: for small deformation, linear viscoelasticity and drop of liquid with a tense cortex; and for large deformation, a Newtonian viscous fluid. For these models, we have derived linearized equations and we provide a novel, straightforward methodology to analyze the experiments. This methodology allowed us to differentiate the effects of the cross-linking proteins in the different regimes of deformation. Our results confirm some previous observations and suggest important relations between the molecular characteristics of the actin-binding proteins and the cell behavior: the effect of myosin is explained in terms of the relation between the lifetime of the bond to actin and the resistive force; the presence of alpha-actinin obstructs the deformation of the cytoskeleton, presumably mainly due to the higher molecular stiffness and to the lower dissociation rate constants; and filamin contributes critically to the global connectivity of the network, possibly by rapidly turning over cross-links during the remodeling of the cytoskeletal network, thanks to the higher rate constants, flexibility and larger size. The results suggest a sophisticated relationship between the expression levels of actin-binding proteins, deformability and mechanosensing.

Plattner, H. (2015). "The contractile vacuole complex of protists--new cues to function and biogenesis." Crit Rev Microbiol 41(2): 218-227.
	The contractile vacuole complex (CVC) of freshwater protists sequesters the excess of water and ions (Ca(2+)) for exocytosis cycles at the pore. Sequestration is based on a chemiosmotic proton gradient produced by a V-type H(+)-ATPase. So far, many pieces of information available have not been combined to a comprehensive view on CVC biogenesis and function. One main function now appears as follows. Ca(2+)-release channels, type inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors (InsP3R), may serve for fine-tuning of local cytosolic Ca(2+) concentration and mediate numerous membrane-to-membrane interactions within the tubular spongiome meshwork. Such activity is suggested by the occurrence of organelle-specific soluble N-ethylmaleimide sensitive factor attachment protein receptor (SNARE) and Ras-related in brain (Rab) proteins, which may regulate functional requirements. For tubulation, F-Bin-amphiphysin-Rvs (F-BAR) proteins are available. In addition, there is indirect evidence for the occurrence of H(+)/Ca(2+) exchangers (to sequester Ca(2+)) and mechanosensitive Ca(2+)-channels (for signaling the filling sate). The periodic activity of the CVC may be regulated by the mechanosensitive Ca(2+)-channels. Such channels are known to colocalize with and to be functionally supported by stomatins, which were recently detected in the CVC. A Kif18-related kinesin motor protein might control the length of radial arms. Two additional InsP3-related channels and several SNAREs are associated with the pore. De novo organelle biogenesis occurs under epigenetic control during mitotic activity and may involve the assembly of gamma-tubulin, centrin, calmodulin and a never in mitosis A-type (NIMA) kinase - components also engaged in mitotic processes.

Pineda, M., et al. (2015). "Modelling cell movement, cell differentiation, cell sorting and proportion regulation in Dictyostelium discoideum aggregations." J Theor Biol 370: 135-150.
	Understanding the mechanisms that control tissue morphogenesis and homeostasis is a central goal not only in developmental biology but also has great relevance for our understanding of various diseases, including cancer. A model organism that is widely used to study the control of tissue morphogenesis and proportioning is the Dictyostelium discoideum. While there are mathematical models describing the role of chemotactic cell motility in the Dictyostelium assembly and morphogenesis of multicellular tissues, as well as models addressing possible mechanisms of proportion regulation, there are no models incorporating both these key aspects of development. In this paper, we introduce a 1D hyperbolic model to investigate the role of two morphogens, DIF and cAMP, on cell movement, cell sorting, cell-type differentiation and proportioning in Dictyostelium discoideum. First, we use the non-spatial version of the model to study cell-type transdifferentiation. We perform a steady-state analysis of it and show that, depending on the shape of the differentiation rate functions, multiple steady-state solutions may occur. Then we incorporate spatial dynamics into the model, and investigate the transdifferentiation and spatial positioning of cells inside the newly formed structures, following the removal of prestalk or prespore regions of a Dictyostelium slug. We show that in isolated prespore fragments, a tipped mound-like aggregate can be formed after a transdifferentiation from prespore to prestalk cells and following the sorting of prestalk cells to the centre of the aggregate. For isolated prestalk fragments, we show the formation of a slug-like structure containing the usual anterior-posterior pattern of prestalk and prespore cells.

Phillips, J. E. and R. H. Gomer (2015). "Partial genetic suppression of a loss-of-function mutant of the neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis-associated protease TPP1 in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dis Model Mech 8(2): 147-156.
	Neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis (NCL) is the most common childhood-onset neurodegenerative disease. NCL is inevitably fatal, and there is currently no treatment available. Children with NCL show a progressive decline in movement, vision and mental abilities, and an accumulation of autofluorescent deposits in neurons and other cell types. Late-infantile NCL is caused by mutations in the lysosomal protease tripeptidyl peptidase 1 (TPP1). TPP1 cleaves tripeptides from the N-terminus of proteins in vitro, but little is known about the physiological function of TPP1. TPP1 shows wide conservation in vertebrates but it is not found in Drosophila, Caenorhabditis elegans or Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Here, we characterize ddTpp1, a TPP1 ortholog present in the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum. Lysates from cells lacking ddTpp1 show a reduced but not abolished ability to cleave a TPP1 substrate, suggesting that other Dictyostelium enzymes can perform this cleavage. ddTpp1 and human TPP1 localize to the lysosome in Dictyostelium, indicating conserved function and trafficking. Cells that lack ddTpp1 show precocious multicellular development and a reduced ability to form spores during development. When cultured in autophagy-stimulating conditions, cells lacking ddTpp1 rapidly decrease in size and are less viable than wild-type cells, suggesting that one function of ddTpp1 could be to limit autophagy. Cells that lack ddTpp1 exhibit strongly impaired development in the presence of the lysosome-perturbing drug chloroquine, and this phenotype can be suppressed through a secondary mutation in the gene that we name suppressor of tpp1(-) A (stpA), which encodes a protein with some similarity to mammalian oxysterol-binding proteins (OSBPs). Taken together, these results suggest that targeting specific proteins could be a viable way to suppress the effects of loss of TPP1 function.

Perrin, J., et al. (2015). "TM9 family proteins control surface targeting of glycine-rich transmembrane domains." J Cell Sci 128(13): 2269-2277.
	TM9 family proteins (also named Phg1 proteins) have been previously shown to control cell adhesion by determining the cell surface localization of adhesion proteins such as the Dictyostelium SibA protein. Here, we show that the glycine-rich transmembrane domain (TMD) of SibA is sufficient to confer Phg1A-dependent surface targeting to a reporter protein. Accordingly, in Dictyostelium phg1A-knockout (KO) cells, proteins with glycine-rich TMDs were less efficiently transported out of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and to the cell surface. Phg1A, as well as its human ortholog TM9SF4 specifically associated with glycine-rich TMDs. In human cells, genetic inactivation of TM9SF4 resulted in an increased retention of glycine-rich TMDs in the endoplasmic reticulum, whereas TM9SF4 overexpression enhanced their surface localization. The bulk of the TM9SF4 protein was localized in the Golgi complex and a proximity-ligation assay suggested that it might interact with glycine-rich TMDs. Taken together, these results suggest that one of the main roles of TM9 proteins is to serve as intramembrane cargo receptors controlling exocytosis and surface localization of a subset of membrane proteins.

Ostrowski, E. A., et al. (2015). "Genomic signatures of cooperation and conflict in the social amoeba." Curr Biol 25(12): 1661-1665.
	Cooperative systems are susceptible to invasion by selfish individuals that profit from receiving the social benefits but fail to contribute. These so-called "cheaters" can have a fitness advantage in the laboratory, but it is unclear whether cheating provides an important selective advantage in nature. We used a population genomic approach to examine the history of genes involved in cheating behaviors in the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum, testing whether these genes experience rapid evolutionary change as a result of conflict over spore-stalk fate. Candidate genes and surrounding regions showed elevated polymorphism, unusual patterns of linkage disequilibrium, and lower levels of population differentiation, but they did not show greater between-species divergence. The signatures were most consistent with frequency-dependent selection acting to maintain multiple alleles, suggesting that conflict may lead to stalemate rather than an escalating arms race. Our results reveal the evolutionary dynamics of cooperation and cheating and underscore how sequence-based approaches can be used to elucidate the history of conflicts that are difficult to observe directly.

Oladimeji, P., et al. (2015). "A Derivative of Differentiation-Inducing Factor-3 Inhibits PAK1 Activity and Breast Cancer Cell Proliferation." Int J Cancer Clin Res 2(3): 1-6.
	Differentiation-inducing factors 1-3 (DIFs 1-3), chlorinated alkylphenones identified in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum, are considered anti-tumor agents because they inhibit proliferation of a variety of mammalian tumor cells in vitro. Although the anti-proliferative effects of DIF-1 and DIF-3 are well-documented, the precise molecular mechanisms underlying the actions of DIFs have not been fully elucidated. In this study, we examined the effects of DIFs and their derivatives on PAK1, a key serine-threonine kinase, which is activated by multiple ligands and regulates cell proliferation. We examined the effect of DIF derivatives on PAK1 kinase activity in cells. We also examined the effect of DIF-3(+1) derivative on PAK1 kinase activity in vitro, cyclin D1 promoter activity and breast cancer cell proliferation. It was found that some derivatives strongly inhibited PAK1 kinase activity in human breast cancer MCF-7 cells stably over expressing PAK1. Among the derivatives, DIF-3(+1) was most potent, which directly inhibited kinase activity of recombinant purified PAK1 in an in vitro kinase assay. Furthermore, DIF-3(+1) strongly inhibited both cyclin D1 promoter activity and proliferation of MCF-7 and T47D breast cancer cells stably over expressing PAK1 in response to prolactin, estrogen, epidermal growth factor and heregulin. In the present study we propose PAK1 as DIF-3(+1) target mediating its anti-proliferative effect.

O'Day, D. H. and A. Budniak (2015). "Nucleocytoplasmic protein translocation during mitosis in the social amoebozoan Dictyostelium discoideum." Biol Rev Camb Philos Soc 90(1): 126-141.
	Mitosis is a fundamental and essential life process. It underlies the duplication and survival of all cells and, as a result, all eukaryotic organisms. Since uncontrolled mitosis is a dreaded component of many cancers, a full understanding of the process is critical. Evolution has led to the existence of three types of mitosis: closed, open, and semi-open. The significance of these different mitotic species, how they can lead to a full understanding of the critical events that underlie the asexual duplication of all cells, and how they may generate new insights into controlling unregulated cell division remains to be determined. The eukaryotic microbe Dictyostelium discoideum has proved to be a valuable biomedical model organism. While it appears to utilize closed mitosis, a review of the literature suggests that it possesses a form of mitosis that lies in the middle between truly open and fully closed mitosis-it utilizes a form of semi-open mitosis. Here, the nucleocytoplasmic translocation patterns of the proteins that have been studied during mitosis in the social amoebozoan D. discoideum are detailed followed by a discussion of how some of them provide support for the hypothesis of semi-open mitosis.

O'Brien, S. and M. A. Brockhurst (2015). "Social evolution: slimy cheats pay a price." Curr Biol 25(9): R378-381.
	Variation in the routes to social success has led to the designation of 'cheats' and 'cooperators', but new work shows that selection on non-social traits can give the illusion of social cheating in the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum.

Noorbakhsh, J., et al. (2015). "Modeling oscillations and spiral waves in Dictyostelium populations." Phys Rev E Stat Nonlin Soft Matter Phys 91(6): 062711.
	Unicellular organisms exhibit elaborate collective behaviors in response to environmental cues. These behaviors are controlled by complex biochemical networks within individual cells and coordinated through cell-to-cell communication. Describing these behaviors requires new mathematical models that can bridge scales-from biochemical networks within individual cells to spatially structured cellular populations. Here we present a family of "multiscale" models for the emergence of spiral waves in the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum. Our models exploit new experimental advances that allow for the direct measurement and manipulation of the small signaling molecule cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) used by Dictyostelium cells to coordinate behavior in cellular populations. Inspired by recent experiments, we model the Dictyostelium signaling network as an excitable system coupled to various preprocessing modules. We use this family of models to study spatially unstructured populations of "fixed" cells by constructing phase diagrams that relate the properties of population-level oscillations to parameters in the underlying biochemical network. We then briefly discuss an extension of our model that includes spatial structure and show how this naturally gives rise to spiral waves. Our models exhibit a wide range of novel phenomena. including a density-dependent frequency change, bistability, and dynamic death due to slow cAMP dynamics. Our modeling approach provides a powerful tool for bridging scales in modeling of Dictyostelium populations.

Niyogi, S. and R. Docampo (2015). "A novel role of Rab11 in trafficking GPI-anchored trans-sialidase to the plasma membrane of Trypanosoma cruzi." Small GTPases 6(1): 8-10.
	Trypanosoma cruzi, the causative agent of Chagas disease, is a unicellular parasite that possesses a contractile vacuole complex (CVC). This organelle is usually present in free-living protists and is mainly involved in osmoregulation. However, in some organisms, like for example Dictyostelium discoideum, other roles include calcium homeostasis and transference of proteins to the plasma membrane. T. cruzi plasma membrane is very rich in glycosylphosphatidylinositol anchored proteins (GPI-AP) and a very important group of GPI-AP is that of the trans-sialidases. These enzymes catalyze the transfer of sialic acid from host glycoconjugates to mucins present in the surface of the parasite and are important for host cell invasion among other functions. We recently reported that a pathway dependent on the Rab GTPase Rab11 is involved in the traffic of trans-sialidases to the plasma membrane through the CVC of the infective stages of the parasite and that preventing this traffic results in considerable reduction in the ability of T. cruzi to infect host cells. We also found that traffic of other GPI-anchored proteins is also through the CVC but uses a Rab11-independent pathway. These represent unconventional pathways of GPI-anchored protein traffic to the plasma membrane.

Nichols, J. M., et al. (2015). "Chemotaxis of a model organism: progress with Dictyostelium." Curr Opin Cell Biol 36: 7-12.
	Model organisms have been key to understanding many core biological processes. Dictyostelium amoebae have the attributes required to perform this role for chemotaxis, and by providing an evolutionary distant reference point to mammalian cells, they allow the central features of chemotaxis to be discerned. Here we highlight progress with Dictyostelium in understanding: pseudopod and bleb driven movement; the role of the actin cytoskeleton; chemotactic signal processing, including how cells adapt to background stimulation, and the controversial role of PIP3. Macropinocytosis and the axenic mutations are raised as potential confounding factors, while the identification of new players through proteomics holds great promise.

Nguyen, V. H., et al. (2015). "Development of novel DIF-1 derivatives that selectively suppress innate immune responses." Bioorg Med Chem 23(15): 4311-4315.
	The multiple pharmacological activities of differentiation-inducing factor-1 (DIF-1) of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum led us to examine the use of DIF-1 as a 'drug template' to develop promising seed compounds for drug discovery. DIF-1 and its derivatives were synthesized and evaluated for their regulatory activities in innate immune responses. We found two new derivatives (4d and 5e) with highly selective inhibitory activities against production of the antimicrobial peptide attacin in Drosophila S2 cells and against production of interleukin-2 in Jurkat cells.

Nguyen, H. N., et al. (2015). "A new class of cancer-associated PTEN mutations defined by membrane translocation defects." Oncogene 34(28): 3737-3743.
	Phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN), which negatively regulates tumorigenic phosphatidylinositol (3,4,5)-trisphosphate (PIP3) signaling, is a commonly mutated tumor suppressor. The majority of cancer-associated PTEN mutations block its essential PIP3 phosphatase activity. However, there is a group of clinically identified PTEN mutations that maintain enzymatic activity, and it is unknown how these mutations contribute to tumor pathogenesis. Here, we show that these enzymatically competent PTEN mutants fail to translocate to the plasma membrane where PTEN converts PIP3 to PI(4,5)P2. Artificial membrane tethering of the PTEN mutants effectively restores tumor suppressor activity and represses excess PIP3 signaling in cells. Thus, our findings reveal a novel mechanism of tumorigenic PTEN deficiency.

Ngo, K. X., et al. (2015). "Cofilin-induced unidirectional cooperative conformational changes in actin filaments revealed by high-speed atomic force microscopy." Elife 4.
	High-speed atomic force microscopy was employed to observe structural changes in actin filaments induced by cofilin binding. Consistent with previous electron and fluorescence microscopic studies, cofilin formed clusters along actin filaments, where the filaments were 2-nm thicker and the helical pitch was ~25% shorter, compared to control filaments. Interestingly, the shortened helical pitch was propagated to the neighboring bare zone on the pointed-end side of the cluster, while the pitch on the barbed-end side was similar to the control. Thus, cofilin clusters induce distinctively asymmetric conformational changes in filaments. Consistent with the idea that cofilin favors actin structures with a shorter helical pitch, cofilin clusters grew unidirectionally toward the pointed-end of the filament. Severing was often observed near the boundaries between bare zones and clusters, but not necessarily at the boundaries.

Myllymaki, H., et al. (2015). "Animal models in tuberculosis research - where is the beef?" Expert Opin Drug Discov 10(8): 871-883.
	INTRODUCTION: Tuberculosis (TB) is a major global health problem, and new drugs and vaccines are urgently needed. As clinical trials in humans require tremendous resources, preclinical drug and vaccine development largely relies on valid animal models that recapitulate the pathology of human disease and the immune responses of the host as closely as possible. AREAS COVERED: This review describes the animal models used in TB research, the most widely used being mice, guinea pigs and nonhuman primates. In addition, rabbits and cattle provide models with a disease pathology resembling that of humans. Invertebrate models, including the fruit fly and the Dictyostelium amoeba, have also been used to study mycobacterial infections. Recently, the zebrafish has emerged as a promising model for studying mycobacterial infections. The zebrafish model also facilitates the large-scale screening of drug and vaccine candidates. EXPERT OPINION: Animal models are needed for TB research and provide valuable information on the mechanisms of the disease and on ways of preventing it. However, the data obtained in animal studies need to be carefully interpreted and evaluated before making assumptions concerning humans. With an increasing understanding of disease mechanisms, animal models can be further improved to best serve research goals.

Munoz-Braceras, S., et al. (2015). "TipC and the chorea-acanthocytosis protein VPS13A regulate autophagy in Dictyostelium and human HeLa cells." Autophagy 11(6): 918-927.
	Deficient autophagy causes a distinct phenotype in Dictyostelium discoideum, characterized by the formation of multitips at the mound stage. This led us to analyze autophagy in a number of multitipped mutants described previously (tipA(-), tipB(-), tipC(-), and tipD(-)). We found a clear autophagic dysfunction in tipC(-) and tipD(-) while the others showed no defects. tipD codes for a homolog of Atg16, which confirms the role of this protein in Dictyostelium autophagy and validates our approach. The tipC-encoded protein is highly similar to human VPS13A (also known as chorein), whose mutations cause the chorea-acanthocytosis syndrome. No member of the VPS13 protein family has been previously related to autophagy despite the presence of a region of similarity to Atg2 at the C terminus. This region also contains the conserved domain of unknown function DUF1162. Of interest, the expression of the TipC C-terminal coding sequence containing these 2 motifs largely complemented the mutant phenotype. Dictyostelium cells lacking TipC displayed a reduced number of autophagosomes visualized with the markers GFP-Atg18 and GFP-Atg8 and an impaired autophagic degradation as determined by a proteolytic cleavage assay. Downregulation of human VPS13A in HeLa cells by RNA interference confirmed the participation of the human protein in autophagy. VPS13A-depleted cells showed accumulation of autophagic markers and impaired autophagic flux.

Muller, M., et al. (2015). "Dynamic modulation of Dnmt2-dependent tRNA methylation by the micronutrient queuine." Nucleic Acids Res 43(22): 10952-10962.
	Dnmt2 enzymes are cytosine-5 methyltransferases that methylate C38 of several tRNAs. We report here that the activities of two Dnmt2 homologs, Pmt1 from Schizosaccharomyces pombe and DnmA from Dictyostelium discoideum, are strongly stimulated by prior queuosine (Q) modification of the substrate tRNA. In vivo tRNA methylation levels were stimulated by growth of cells in queuine-containing medium; in vitro Pmt1 activity was enhanced on Q-containing RNA; and queuine-stimulated in vivo methylation was abrogated by the absence of the enzyme that inserts queuine into tRNA, eukaryotic tRNA-guanine transglycosylase. Global analysis of tRNA methylation in S. pombe showed a striking selectivity of Pmt1 for tRNA(Asp) methylation, which distinguishes Pmt1 from other Dnmt2 homologs. The present analysis also revealed a novel Pmt1- and Q-independent tRNA methylation site in S. pombe, C34 of tRNA(Pro). Notably, queuine is a micronutrient that is scavenged by higher eukaryotes from the diet and gut microflora. This work therefore reveals an unanticipated route by which the environment can modulate tRNA modification in an organism.

Mony, B. M. and K. R. Matthews (2015). "Assembling the components of the quorum sensing pathway in African trypanosomes." Mol Microbiol 96(2): 220-232.
	African trypanosomes, parasites that cause human sleeping sickness, undergo a density-dependent differentiation in the bloodstream of their mammalian hosts. This process is driven by a released parasite-derived factor that causes parasites to accumulate in G1 and become quiescent. This is accompanied by morphological transformation to 'stumpy' forms that are adapted to survival and further development when taken up in the blood meal of tsetse flies, the vector for trypanosomiasis. Although the soluble signal driving differentiation to stumpy forms is unidentified, a recent genome-wide RNAi screen identified many of the intracellular signalling and effector molecules required for the response to this signal. These resemble components of nutritional starvation and quiescence pathways in other eukaryotes, suggesting that parasite development shares similarities with the adaptive quiescence of organisms such as yeasts and Dictyostelium in response to nutritional starvation and stress. Here, the trypanosome signalling pathway is discussed in the context of these conserved pathways and the possible contributions of opposing 'slender retainer' and 'stumpy inducer' arms described. As evolutionarily highly divergent eukaryotes, the organisation and conservation of this developmental pathway can provide insight into the developmental cycle of other protozoan parasites, as well as the adaptive and programmed developmental responses of all eukaryotic cells.

Mohan, K., et al. (2015). "Cell shape regulation through mechanosensory feedback control." J R Soc Interface 12(109): 20150512.
	Cells undergo controlled changes in morphology in response to intracellular and extracellular signals. These changes require a means for sensing and interpreting the signalling cues, for generating the forces that act on the cell's physical material, and a control system to regulate this process. Experiments on Dictyostelium amoebae have shown that force-generating proteins can localize in response to external mechanical perturbations. This mechanosensing, and the ensuing mechanical feedback, plays an important role in minimizing the effect of mechanical disturbances in the course of changes in cell shape, especially during cell division, and likely in other contexts, such as during three-dimensional migration. Owing to the complexity of the feedback system, which couples mechanical and biochemical signals involved in shape regulation, theoretical approaches can guide further investigation by providing insights that are difficult to decipher experimentally. Here, we present a computational model that explains the different mechanosensory and mechanoresponsive behaviours observed in Dictyostelium cells. The model features a multiscale description of myosin II bipolar thick filament assembly that includes cooperative and force-dependent myosin-actin binding, and identifies the feedback mechanisms hidden in the observed mechanoresponsive behaviours of Dictyostelium cells during micropipette aspiration experiments. These feedbacks provide a mechanistic explanation of cellular retraction and hence cell shape regulation.

Mohamed, W., et al. (2015). "Absence of catalytic domain in a putative protein kinase C (PkcA) suppresses tip dominance in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev Biol 405(1): 10-20.
	A number of organisms possess several isoforms of protein kinase C but little is known about the significance of any specific isoform during embryogenesis and development. To address this we characterized a PKC ortholog (PkcA; DDB_G0288147) in Dictyostelium discoideum. pkcA expression switches from prestalk in mound to prespore in slug, indicating a dynamic expression pattern. Mutants lacking the catalytic domain of PkcA (pkcA(-)) did not exhibit tip dominance. A striking phenotype of pkcA- was the formation of an aggregate with a central hollow, and aggregates later fragmented to form small mounds, each becoming a fruiting body. Optical density wave patterns of cAMP in the late aggregates showed several cAMP wave generation centers. We attribute these defects in pkcA(-) to impaired cAMP signaling, altered cell motility and decreased expression of the cell adhesion molecules - CadA and CsaA. pkcA(-) slugs showed ectopic expression of ecmA in the prespore region. Further, the use of a PKC-specific inhibitor, GF109203X that inhibits the activity of catalytic domain phenocopied pkcA(-).

Mishra, H. and S. Saran (2015). "Classification and expression analyses of homeobox genes from Dictyostelium discoideum." J Biosci 40(2): 241-255.
	Homeobox genes are compared between genomes in an attempt to understand the evolution of animal development. The ability of the protist, Dictyostelium discoideum, to shift between uni- and multicellularity makes this group ideal for studying the genetic changes that may have occurred during this transition. We present here the first genome-wide classification and comparative genomic analysis of the 14 homeobox genes present in D. discoideum. Based on the structural alignment of the homeodomains, they can be broadly divided into TALE and non-TALE classes. When individual homeobox genes were compared with members of known class or family, we could further classify them into 3 groups, namely, TALE, OTHER and NOVEL classes, but no HOX family was found. The 5 members of TALE class could be further divided into PBX, PKNOX, IRX and CUP families; 4 homeobox genes classified as NOVEL did not show any similarity to any known homeobox genes; while the remaining 5 were classified as OTHERS as they did show certain degree of similarity to few known homeobox genes. No unique RNA expression pattern during development of D. discoideum emerged for members of an individual group. Putative promoter analysis revealed binding sites for few homeobox transcription factors among many probable factors.

Miranda, E. R., et al. (2015). "The ABC transporter, AbcB3, mediates cAMP export in D. discoideum development." Dev Biol 397(2): 203-211.
	Extracellular cAMP functions as a primary ligand for cell surface cAMP receptors throughout Dictyostelium discoideum development, controlling chemotaxis and morphogenesis. The developmental consequences of cAMP signaling and the metabolism of cAMP have been studied in great detail, but it has been unclear how cells export cAMP across the plasma membrane. Here we show pharmacologically and genetically that ABC transporters mediate cAMP export. Using an evolutionary-developmental biology approach, we identified several candidate abc genes and characterized one of them, abcB3, in more detail. Genetic and biochemical evidence suggest that AbcB3 is a component of the cAMP export mechanism in D. discoideum development.

Mir, H., et al. (2015). "Response of Dictyostelium discoideum to UV-C and involvement of poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase." Cell Prolif 48(3): 363-374.
	OBJECTIVES: Radiation and chemical mutagens are direct DNA-damaging agents and ultraviolet (UV) radiation is frequently used in biological studies. Consequent to ozone depletion, UV-C could become a great challenge to living organisms on earth, in the near future. The present study has focused on the role of poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) during UV-C-induced growth and developmental changes in Dictyostelium discoideum, a phylogenetically important unicellular eukaryote. MATERIALS AND METHODS: Dictyostelium discoideum cells were exposed to different doses of UV-C and PARP activity, and effects of its inhibition were studied. Expression of developmentally regulated genes yakA, car1, aca, csA, regA, ctnA, ctnB, gp24, hspD and dsn were analysed using semiquantitative RT-PCR. RESULTS: We report that the D. discoideum cells displayed PARP activation within 2 min of UV-C irradiation and there was increase in NO levels in a dose-dependent manner. UV-C-irradiated cells had impaired growth, delayed or blocked development and delayed germination compared to control cells. In our previous studies we have shown that inhibition of PARP recovered oxidative stress-induced changes in D. discoideum; however, intriguingly PARP inhibition did not correct all defects as effectively in UV-C-irradiated cells. This possibly was due to interplay with increased NO signalling. CONCLUSIONS: Our results signify that UV-C and oxidative stress affected growth and development in D. discoideum by different mechanisms; these studies could provide major clues to complex mechanisms of growth and development in higher organisms.

Mesquita, A., et al. (2015). "Dissecting the function of Atg1 complex in Dictyostelium autophagy reveals a connection with the pentose phosphate pathway enzyme transketolase." Open Biol 5(8).
	The network of protein-protein interactions of the Dictyostelium discoideum autophagy pathway was investigated by yeast two-hybrid screening of the conserved autophagic proteins Atg1 and Atg8. These analyses confirmed expected interactions described in other organisms and also identified novel interactors that highlight the complexity of autophagy regulation. The Atg1 kinase complex, an essential regulator of autophagy, was investigated in detail here. The composition of the Atg1 complex in D. discoideum is more similar to mammalian cells than to Saccharomyces cerevisiae as, besides Atg13, it contains Atg101, a protein not conserved in this yeast. We found that Atg101 interacts with Atg13 and genetic disruption of these proteins in Dictyostelium leads to an early block in autophagy, although the severity of the developmental phenotype and the degree of autophagic block is higher in Atg13-deficient cells. We have also identified a protein containing zinc-finger B-box and FNIP motifs that interacts with Atg101. Disruption of this protein increases autophagic flux, suggesting that it functions as a negative regulator of Atg101. We also describe the interaction of Atg1 kinase with the pentose phosphate pathway enzyme transketolase (TKT). We found changes in the activity of endogenous TKT activity in strains lacking or overexpressing Atg1, suggesting the presence of an unsuspected regulatory pathway between autophagy and the pentose phosphate pathway in Dictyostelium that seems to be conserved in mammalian cells.

McIntosh, T. J. (2015). "Stepping between membrane microdomains." Biophys J 108(4): 783-784.
	
Mazurier, S., et al. (2015). "Type III secretion system and virulence markers highlight similarities and differences between human- and plant-associated pseudomonads related to Pseudomonas fluorescens and P. putida." Appl Environ Microbiol 81(7): 2579-2590.
	Pseudomonas fluorescens is commonly considered a saprophytic rhizobacterium devoid of pathogenic potential. Nevertheless, the recurrent isolation of strains from clinical human cases could indicate the emergence of novel strains originating from the rhizosphere reservoir, which could be particularly resistant to the immune system and clinical treatment. The importance of type three secretion systems (T3SSs) in the related Pseudomonas aeruginosa nosocomial species and the occurrence of this secretion system in plant-associated P. fluorescens raise the question of whether clinical isolates may also harbor T3SSs. In this study, isolates associated with clinical infections and identified in hospitals as belonging to P. fluorescens were compared with fluorescent pseudomonads harboring T3SSs isolated from plants. Bacterial isolates were tested for (i) their genetic relationships based on their 16S rRNA phylogeny, (ii) the presence of T3SS genes by PCR, and (iii) their infectious potential on animals and plants under environmental or physiological temperature conditions. Two groups of bacteria were delineated among the clinical isolates. The first group encompassed thermotolerant (41 degrees C) isolates from patients suffering from blood infections; these isolates were finally found to not belong to P. fluorescens but were closely related and harbored highly conserved T3SS genes belonging to the Ysc-T3SS family, like the T3SSs from P. aeruginosa. The second group encompassed isolates from patients suffering from cystic fibrosis; these isolates belonged to P. fluorescens and harbored T3SS genes belonging to the Hrp1-T3SS family found commonly in plant-associated P. fluorescens.

Mattern, D. J., et al. (2015). "Identification of the antiphagocytic trypacidin gene cluster in the human-pathogenic fungus Aspergillus fumigatus." Appl Microbiol Biotechnol 99(23): 10151-10161.
	The opportunistic human pathogen Aspergillus fumigatus produces numerous different natural products. The genetic basis for the biosynthesis of a number of known metabolites has remained unknown. The gene cluster encoding for the biosynthesis of the conidia-bound metabolite trypacidin is of particular interest because of its antiprotozoal activity and possible role in the infection process. Here, we show that the genes encoding the biosynthesis enzymes of trypacidin reside within an orphan gene cluster in A. fumigatus. Genome mining identified tynC as an uncharacterized polyketide synthase with high similarity to known enzymes, whose products are structurally related to trypacidin including endocrocin and fumicycline. Gene deletion of tynC resulted in the complete absence of trypacidin production, which was fully restored when the mutant strain was complemented with the wild-type gene. When confronted with macrophages, the tynC deletion mutant conidia were more frequently phagocytosed than those of the parental wild-type strain. This was also found for phagocytic amoebae of the species Dictyostelium discoideum, which showed increased phagocytosis of DeltatynC conidia. Both macrophages and amoebae were also sensitive to trypacidin. Therefore, our results suggest that the conidium-bound trypacidin could have a protective function against phagocytes both in the environment and during the infection process.

Malinovska, L., et al. (2015). "Dictyostelium discoideum has a highly Q/N-rich proteome and shows an unusual resilience to protein aggregation." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 112(20): E2620-2629.
	Many protein-misfolding diseases are caused by proteins carrying prion-like domains. These proteins show sequence similarity to yeast prion proteins, which can interconvert between an intrinsically disordered and an aggregated prion state. The natural presence of prions in yeast has provided important insight into disease mechanisms and cellular proteostasis. However, little is known about prions in other organisms, and it is not yet clear whether the findings in yeast can be generalized. Using bioinformatics tools, we show that Dictyostelium discoideum has the highest content of prion-like proteins of all organisms investigated to date, suggesting that its proteome has a high overall aggregation propensity. To study mechanisms regulating these proteins, we analyze the behavior of several well-characterized prion-like proteins, such as an expanded version of human huntingtin exon 1 (Q103) and the prion domain of the yeast prion protein Sup35 (NM), in D. discoideum. We find that these proteins remain soluble and are innocuous to D. discoideum, in contrast to other organisms, where they form cytotoxic cytosolic aggregates. However, when exposed to conditions that compromise molecular chaperones, these proteins aggregate and become cytotoxic. We show that the disaggregase Hsp101, a molecular chaperone of the Hsp100 family, dissolves heat-induced aggregates and promotes thermotolerance. Furthermore, prion-like proteins accumulate in the nucleus, where they are targeted by the ubiquitin-proteasome system. Our data suggest that D. discoideum has undergone specific adaptations that increase the proteostatic capacity of this organism and allow for an efficient regulation of its prion-like proteome.

Malinovska, L. and S. Alberti (2015). "Protein misfolding in Dictyostelium: Using a freak of nature to gain insight into a universal problem." Prion 9(5): 339-346.
	Prion-like proteins can undergo conformational rearrangements from an intrinsically disordered to a highly ordered amyloid state. This ability to change conformation is encoded in distinctive domains, termed prion domains (PrDs). Previous work suggests that PrDs change conformation to affect protein function and create phenotypic diversity. More recent work shows that PrDs can also undergo many weak interactions when disordered, allowing them to organize the intracellular space into dynamic compartments. However, mutations within PrDs and altered aggregation properties have also been linked to age-related diseases in humans. Thus, the physiological role of prion-like proteins, the mechanisms regulating their conformational promiscuity and the links to disease are still unclear. Here, we summarize recent work with prion-like proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum. This work was motivated by the finding that D. discoideum has the highest content of prion-like proteins of all organisms investigated to date. Surprisingly, we find that endogenous and exogenous prion-like proteins remain soluble in D. discoideum and do not misfold and aggregate. We provide evidence that this is due to specific adaptations in the protein quality control machinery, which may allow D. discoideum to tolerate its highly aggregation-prone proteome. We predict that D. discoideum will be an important model to study the function of prion-like proteins and their mechanistic links to disease.

Maeda, Y. (2015). "A long-range foresight for the medical application of apoptosis specifically induced by Dd-MRP4, Dictyostelium mitochondrial ribosomal protein S4, to cancer therapy." Biomolecules 5(1): 113-120.
	Apoptosis (programmed cell death) is regarded as ultimate differentiation of the cell. We have recently demonstrated that a targeted delivery of Dd-MRP4 (Dictyostelium mitochondrial ribosomal protein S4) suppresses specifically the proliferation of the human cancer cells, by inducing their apoptotic cell death (Chida et al., 2014, doi:10.1186/1475-2867-14-56). This amazing fact was discovered, simply based on the finding that Dd-MRP4 expression is absolutely required for transition of Dictyostelium cells from growth to differentiation (Chida et al., 2008, doi:10.1186/1471-2156-9-25; Maeda et al., 2013, doi:10.3390/biom3040943). Dd-MRP4 protein has quite unique structural characters, in that it is highly basic (pI: about 11.5) and interestingly has several nuclear-localization signals within the molecule. In this review, we introduce briefly the efficacy of several apoptosis-inducing substances reported thus far for cancer therapy, and speculate the possible mechanisms, by which apoptosis is specifically induced by Dd-MRP4, on the basis of its structural uniqueness. We also discuss several issues to be solved for the medical application of ectopically expressed Dd-MRP4 in human cancer cells.

Ma, M. Y., et al. (2015). "Evaluation of the mechanisms of intron loss and gain in the social amoebae Dictyostelium." BMC Evol Biol 15: 286.
	BACKGROUND: Spliceosomal introns are a common feature of eukaryotic genomes. To approach a comprehensive understanding of intron evolution on Earth, studies should look beyond repeatedly studied groups such as animals, plants, and fungi. The slime mold Dictyostelium belongs to a supergroup of eukaryotes not covered in previous studies. RESULTS: We found 441 precise intron losses in Dictyostelium discoideum and 202 precise intron losses in Dictyostelium purpureum. Consistent with these observations, Dictyostelium discoideum was found to have significantly more copies of reverse transcriptase genes than Dictyostelium purpureum. We also found that the lost introns are significantly further from the 5' end of genes than the conserved introns. Adjacent introns were prone to be lost simultaneously in Dictyostelium discoideum. In both Dictyostelium species, the exonic sequences flanking lost introns were found to have a significantly higher GC content than those flanking conserved introns. Together, these observations support a reverse-transcription model of intron loss in which intron losses were caused by gene conversion between genomic DNA and cDNA reverse transcribed from mature mRNA. We also identified two imprecise intron losses in Dictyostelium discoideum that may have resulted from genomic deletions. Ninety-eight putative intron gains were also observed. Consistent with previous studies of other lineages, the source sequences were found in only a small number of cases, with only two instances of intron gain identified in Dictyostelium discoideum. CONCLUSIONS: Although they diverged very early from animals and fungi, Dictyostelium species have similar mechanisms of intron loss.

Loomis, W. F. (2015). "Genetic control of morphogenesis in Dictyostelium." Dev Biol 402(2): 146-161.
	Cells grow, move, expand, shrink and die in the process of generating the characteristic shapes of organisms. Although the structures generated during development of the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum look nothing like the structures seen in metazoan embryogenesis, some of the morphogenetic processes used in their making are surprisingly similar. Recent advances in understanding the molecular basis for directed cell migration, cell type specific sorting, differential adhesion, secretion of matrix components, pattern formation, regulation and terminal differentiation are reviewed. Genes involved in Dictyostelium aggregation, slug formation, and culmination of fruiting bodies are discussed.

Long, Y. and J. E. Jackman (2015). "In vitro substrate specificities of 3'-5' polymerases correlate with biological outcomes of tRNA 5'-editing reactions." FEBS Lett 589(16): 2124-2130.
	Protozoan mitochondrial tRNAs (mt-tRNAs) are repaired by a process known as 5'-editing. Mt-tRNA sequencing revealed organism-specific patterns of editing G-U base pairs, wherein some species remove G-U base pairs during 5'-editing, while others retain G-U pairs in the edited tRNA. We tested whether 3'-5' polymerases that catalyze the repair step of 5'-editing exhibit organism-specific preferences that explain the treatment of G-U base pairs. Biochemical and kinetic approaches revealed that a 3'-5' polymerase from Acanthamoeba castellanii tolerates G-U wobble pairs in editing substrates much more readily than several other enzymes, consistent with its biological pattern of editing.

Lockley, R., et al. (2015). "Image based validation of dynamical models for cell reorientation." Cytometry A 87(6): 471-480.
	A key feature of directed cell movement is the ability of cells to reorient quickly in response to changes in the direction of an extracellular stimulus. Mathematical models have suggested quite different regulatory mechanisms to explain reorientation, raising the question of how we can validate these models in a rigorous way. In this study, we fit three reaction-diffusion models to experimental data of Dictyostelium amoebae reorienting in response to alternating gradients of mechanical shear flow. The experimental readouts we use to fit are spatio-temporal distributions of a fluorescent reporter for cortical F-actin labeling the cell front. Experiments performed under different conditions are fitted simultaneously to challenge the models with different types of cellular dynamics. Although the model proposed by Otsuji is unable to provide a satisfactory fit, those suggested by Meinhardt and Levchenko fit equally well. Further, we show that reduction of the three-variable Meinhardt model to a two-variable model also provides an excellent fit, but has the advantage of all parameters being uniquely identifiable. Our work demonstrates that model selection and identifiability analysis, commonly applied to temporal dynamics problems in systems biology, can be a powerful tool when extended to spatio-temporal imaging data.

Liu, X., et al. (2015). "The Coronin Family and Human Disease." Curr Protein Pept Sci.
	The Coronin family is one of the WD-repeat domain containing families that are diverse in both of their structures and functions. The first coronin was identified in the cytoskeleton composition of Dictyostelium discoideum, which was discovered to regulate the actin functions. So far, 723 coronins have been identified throughout the eukaryotic kingdom by bioinformatics analysis in 358 species. In mammals, 7 coronins have been identified to date, which are named through Coronin 1 to Coronin 7; all of these isoforms contain two structurally conservational region: a 7-bladed beta-propeller scaffold in N-terminal and a C-terminal variable coiled coil domain. Although some studies were showing that mammalian coronins have regulated the actin dynamics, recently many other functions such as calcium signaling regulation, cAMP signaling regulation, have been also reported beyond the actin modulation. Furthermore, many diseases have been found to be extensively associated with the abnormal expression of coronins, such as auto-immunity, bacterial and virus infection, neuronal behavior disorder and cancer. In this review, we would like to systematically discuss the recent progresses of mammalian coronins and associated diseases, as well as possible underlying molecular mechanisms.

Lin, W. C., et al. (2015). "Actin-binding protein G (AbpG) participates in modulating the actin cytoskeleton and cell migration in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol Biol Cell 26(6): 1084-1097.
	Cell migration is involved in various physiological and pathogenic events, and the complex underlying molecular mechanisms have not been fully elucidated. The simple eukaryote Dictyostelium discoideum displays chemotactic locomotion in stages of its life cycle. By characterizing a Dictyostelium mutant defective in chemotactic responses, we identified a novel actin-binding protein serving to modulate cell migration and named it actin-binding protein G (AbpG); this 971-amino acid (aa) protein contains an N-terminal type 2 calponin homology (CH2) domain followed by two large coiled-coil regions. In chemoattractant gradients, abpG(-) cells display normal directional persistence but migrate significantly more slowly than wild-type cells; expressing Flag-AbpG in mutant cells eliminates the motility defect. AbpG is enriched in cortical/lamellipodial regions and colocalizes well with F-actin; aa 401-600 and aa 501-550 fragments of AbpG show the same distribution as full-length AbpG. The aa 501-550 region of AbpG, which is essential for AbpG to localize to lamellipodia and to rescue the phenotype of abpG(-) cells, is sufficient for binding to F-actin and represents a novel actin-binding protein domain. Compared with wild-type cells, abpG(-) cells have significantly higher F-actin levels. Collectively our results suggest that AbpG may participate in modulating actin dynamics to optimize cell locomotion.

Lin, C. Y., et al. (2015). "Module organization and variance in protein-protein interaction networks." Sci Rep 5: 9386.
	A module is a group of closely related proteins that act in concert to perform specific biological functions through protein-protein interactions (PPIs) that occur in time and space. However, the underlying module organization and variance remain unclear. In this study, we collected module templates to infer respective module families, including 58,041 homologous modules in 1,678 species, and PPI families using searches of complete genomic database. We then derived PPI evolution scores and interface evolution scores to describe the module elements, including core and ring components. Functions of core components were highly correlated with those of essential genes. In comparison with ring components, core proteins/PPIs were conserved across multiple species. Subsequently, protein/module variance of PPI networks confirmed that core components form dynamic network hubs and play key roles in various biological functions. Based on the analyses of gene essentiality, module variance, and gene co-expression, we summarize the observations of module organization and variance as follows: 1) a module consists of core and ring components; 2) core components perform major biological functions and collaborate with ring components to execute certain functions in some cases; 3) core components are more conserved and essential during organizational changes in different biological states or conditions.

Li, C. L., et al. (2015). "Altered N-glycosylation modulates TgrB1- and TgrC1-mediated development but not allorecognition in Dictyostelium." J Cell Sci 128(21): 3990-3996.
	Cell surface adhesion receptors play diverse functions in multicellular development. In Dictyostelium, two immunoglobulin-like adhesion proteins, TgrB1 and TgrC1, are essential components with dual roles in morphogenesis and allorecognition during development. TgrB1 and TgrC1 form a heterophilic adhesion complex during cell contact and mediate intercellular communication. The underlying signaling pathways, however, have not been characterized. Here, we report on a mutation that suppresses the tgrB-tgrC1-defective developmental arrest. The mutated gene alg9 encodes a putative mannosyl transferase that participates in N-linked protein glycosylation. We show that alteration in N-linked glycosylation, caused by an alg9 mutation with a plasmid insertion (alg9(ins)) or tunicamycin treatment, can partially suppress the developmental phenotypes caused by tgrC1 deletion or replacement with an incompatible allele. The alg9(ins) mutation also preferentially primed cells toward a stalk-cell fate. Despite its effect on development, we found that altered N-linked glycosylation had no discernable effect on TgrB1-TgrC1-mediated allorecognition. Our results show that N-linked protein glycosylation can modulate developmental processes without disturbing cell-cell recognition, suggesting that tgrB1 and tgrC1 have distinct effects in the two processes.

Levin, S. R., et al. (2015). "Concurrent coevolution of intra-organismal cheaters and resisters." J Evol Biol 28(4): 756-765.
	The evolution of multicellularity is a major transition that is not yet fully understood. Specifically, we do not know whether there are any mechanisms by which multicellularity can be maintained without a single-cell bottleneck or other relatedness-enhancing mechanisms. Under low relatedness, cheaters can evolve that benefit from the altruistic behaviour of others without themselves sacrificing. If these are obligate cheaters, incapable of cooperating, their spread can lead to the demise of multicellularity. One possibility, however, is that cooperators can evolve resistance to cheaters. We tested this idea in a facultatively multicellular social amoeba, Dictyostelium discoideum. This amoeba usually exists as a single cell but, when stressed, thousands of cells aggregate to form a multicellular organism in which some of the cells sacrifice for the good of others. We used lineages that had undergone experimental evolution at very low relatedness, during which time obligate cheaters evolved. Unlike earlier experiments, which found resistance to cheaters that were prevented from evolving, we competed cheaters and noncheaters that evolved together, and cheaters with their ancestors. We found that noncheaters can evolve resistance to cheating before cheating sweeps through the population and multicellularity is lost. Our results provide insight into cheater-resister coevolutionary dynamics, in turn providing experimental evidence for the maintenance of at least a simple form of multicellularity by means other than high relatedness.

Leger, M. M., et al. (2015). "An ancestral bacterial division system is widespread in eukaryotic mitochondria." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 112(33): 10239-10246.
	Bacterial division initiates at the site of a contractile Z-ring composed of polymerized FtsZ. The location of the Z-ring in the cell is controlled by a system of three mutually antagonistic proteins, MinC, MinD, and MinE. Plastid division is also known to be dependent on homologs of these proteins, derived from the ancestral cyanobacterial endosymbiont that gave rise to plastids. In contrast, the mitochondria of model systems such as Saccharomyces cerevisiae, mammals, and Arabidopsis thaliana seem to have replaced the ancestral alpha-proteobacterial Min-based division machinery with host-derived dynamin-related proteins that form outer contractile rings. Here, we show that the mitochondrial division system of these model organisms is the exception, rather than the rule, for eukaryotes. We describe endosymbiont-derived, bacterial-like division systems comprising FtsZ and Min proteins in diverse less-studied eukaryote protistan lineages, including jakobid and heterolobosean excavates, a malawimonad, stramenopiles, amoebozoans, a breviate, and an apusomonad. For two of these taxa, the amoebozoan Dictyostelium purpureum and the jakobid Andalucia incarcerata, we confirm a mitochondrial localization of these proteins by their heterologous expression in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The discovery of a proteobacterial-like division system in mitochondria of diverse eukaryotic lineages suggests that it was the ancestral feature of all eukaryotic mitochondria and has been supplanted by a host-derived system multiple times in distinct eukaryote lineages.

Lear, P. V., et al. (2015). "Absence of intracellular ion channels TPC1 and TPC2 leads to mature-onset obesity in male mice, due to impaired lipid availability for thermogenesis in brown adipose tissue." Endocrinology 156(3): 975-986.
	Intracellular calcium-permeable channels have been implicated in thermogenic function of murine brown and brite/beige adipocytes, respectively transient receptor potential melastin-8 and transient receptor potential vanilloid-4. Because the endo-lysosomal two-pore channels (TPCs) have also been ascribed with metabolic functionality, we studied the effect of simultaneously knocking out TPC1 and TPC2 on body composition and energy balance in male mice fed a chow diet. Compared with wild-type mice, TPC1 and TPC2 double knockout (Tpcn1/2(-/-)) animals had a higher respiratory quotient and became obese between 6 and 9 months of age. Although food intake was unaltered, interscapular brown adipose tissue (BAT) maximal temperature and lean-mass adjusted oxygen consumption were lower in Tpcn1/2(-/-) than in wild type mice. Phosphorylated hormone-sensitive lipase expression, lipid density and expression of beta-adrenergic receptors were also lower in Tpcn1/2(-/-) BAT, whereas mitochondrial respiratory chain function and uncoupling protein-1 expression remained intact. We conclude that Tpcn1/2(-/-) mice show mature-onset obesity due to reduced lipid availability and use, and a defect in beta-adrenergic receptor signaling, leading to impaired thermogenic activity, in BAT.

Laskowski, M., et al. (2015). "Mitochondrial large-conductance potassium channel from Dictyostelium discoideum." Int J Biochem Cell Biol 60: 167-175.
	In the present study, we describe the existence of a large-conductance calcium-activated potassium (BKCa) channel in the mitochondria of Dictyostelium discoideum. A single-channel current was recorded in a reconstituted system, using planar lipid bilayers. The large-conductance potassium channel activity of 258+/-12 pS was recorded in a 50/150 mM KCl gradient solution. The probability of channel opening (the channel activity) was increased by calcium ions and NS1619 (potassium channel opener) and reduced by iberiotoxin (BKCa channel inhibitor). The substances known to modulate BKCa channel activity influenced the bioenergetics of D. discoideum mitochondria. In isolated mitochondria, NS1619 and NS11021 stimulated non-phosphorylating respiration and depolarized membrane potential, indicating the channel activation. These effects were blocked by iberiotoxin and paxilline. Moreover, the activation of the channel resulted in attenuation of superoxide formation, but its inhibition had the opposite effect. Immunological analysis with antibodies raised against mammalian BKCa channel subunits detected a pore-forming alpha subunit and auxiliary beta subunits of the channel in D. discoideum mitochondria. In conclusion, we show for the first time that mitochondria of D. discoideum, a unicellular ameboid protozoon that facultatively forms multicellular structures, contain a large-conductance calcium-activated potassium channel with electrophysiological, biochemical and molecular properties similar to those of the channels previously described in mammalian and plant mitochondria.

Lampe, E. O., et al. (2015). "Dissection of Francisella-Host Cell Interactions in Dictyostelium discoideum." Appl Environ Microbiol 82(5): 1586-1598.
	Francisella bacteria cause severe disease in both vertebrates and invertebrates and include one of the most infectious human pathogens. Mammalian cell lines have mainly been used to study the mechanisms by which Francisella manipulates its host to replicate within a large variety of hosts and cell types, including macrophages. Here, we describe the establishment of a genetically and biochemically tractable infection model: the amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum combined with the fish pathogen Francisella noatunensis subsp. noatunensis. Phagocytosed F. noatunensis subsp. noatunensis interacts with the endosomal pathway and escapes further phagosomal maturation by translocating into the host cell cytosol. F. noatunensis subsp. noatunensis lacking IglC, a known virulence determinant required for Francisella intracellular replication, follows the normal phagosomal maturation and does not grow in Dictyostelium. The attenuation of the F. noatunensis subsp. noatunensis DeltaiglC mutant was confirmed in a zebrafish embryo model, where growth of F. noatunensis subsp. noatunensis DeltaiglC was restricted. In Dictyostelium, F. noatunensis subsp. noatunensis interacts with the autophagic machinery. The intracellular bacteria colocalize with autophagic markers, and when autophagy is impaired (Dictyostelium Deltaatg1), F. noatunensis subsp. noatunensis accumulates within Dictyostelium cells. Altogether, the Dictyostelium-F. noatunensis subsp. noatunensis infection model recapitulates the course of infection described in other host systems. The genetic and biochemical tractability of the system allows new approaches to elucidate the dynamic interactions between pathogenic Francisella and its host organism.

Lamoth, F., et al. (2015). "Waddlia: An emerging pathogen and a model organism to study the biology of chlamydiae." Microbes Infect 17(11-12): 732-737.
	Waddlia chondrophila is an emerging pathogen associated with abortion in cattle. In humans, a growing body of evidence supports its pathogenic role in miscarriage and in respiratory tract infection. The human pathogenicity of W. chondrophila is further supported by the presence of several virulence factors including a catalase, a functional T3SS and several adhesins. Despite this medical importance, no commercial tests are available and diagnostic of this strict intracellular bacterium mainly relies on serology, PCR and immunohistochemistry. So far, the epidemiology of W. chondrophila remains largely unexplored and zoonotic, waterborne or interhuman transmission has been considered. Apart from its pathogenic role, chlamydiologists are also interested in W. chondrophila in order to better understand biological mechanisms conserved and shared with Chlamydia spp. Indeed, W. chondrophila proved to be a useful model organism to study the pathobiology of chlamydiae thanks to its rapid replication, its large size allowing precise subcellular protein localization, as well as its growth in Dictyostelium amoebae.

Kubokura, N., et al. (2015). "Differentiation-inducing factor-3 inhibits intestinal tumor growth in vitro and in vivo." J Pharmacol Sci 127(4): 446-455.
	Differentiation-inducing factor-1 (DIF-1) produced by Dictyostelium discoideum strongly inhibits the proliferation of various types of cancer cells by suppression of the Wnt/beta-catenin signal transduction pathway. In the present study, we examined the effect of differentiation-inducing factor-3 (DIF-3), a monochlorinated metabolite of DIF-1 that is also produced by D. discoideum, on human colon cancer cell lines HCT-116 and DLD-1. DIF-3 strongly inhibited cell proliferation by arresting the cell cycle at the G0/G1 phase. DIF-3 reduced the expression levels of cyclin D1 and c-Myc by facilitating their degradation via activation of GSK-3beta in a time and dose-dependent manner. In addition, DIF-3 suppressed the expression of T-cell factor 7-like 2, a key transcription factor in the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway, thereby reducing the mRNA levels of cyclin D1 and c-Myc. Subsequently, we examined the in vivo effects of DIF-3 in Mutyh(-/-) mice with oxidative stress-induced intestinal cancers. Repeated oral administration of DIF-3 markedly reduced the number and size of cancers at a level comparable to that of DIF-1. These data suggest that DIF-3 inhibits intestinal cancer cell proliferation in vitro and in vivo, probably by mechanisms similar to those identified in DIF-1 actions, and that DIF-3 may be a potential novel anti-cancer agent.

Kubohara, Y., et al. (2015). "Derivatives of Dictyostelium differentiation-inducing factors inhibit lysophosphatidic acid-stimulated migration of murine osteosarcoma LM8 cells." Biochem Biophys Res Commun 463(4): 800-805.
	Osteosarcoma is a common metastatic bone cancer that predominantly develops in children and adolescents. Metastatic osteosarcoma remains associated with a poor prognosis; therefore, more effective anti-metastatic drugs are needed. Differentiation-inducing factor-1 (DIF-1), -2, and -3 are novel lead anti-tumor agents that were originally isolated from the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. Here we investigated the effects of a panel of DIF derivatives on lysophosphatidic acid (LPA)-induced migration of mouse osteosarcoma LM8 cells by using a Boyden chamber assay. Some DIF derivatives such as Br-DIF-1, DIF-3(+2), and Bu-DIF-3 (5-20 muM) dose-dependently suppressed LPA-induced cell migration with associated IC50 values of 5.5, 4.6, and 4.2 muM, respectively. On the other hand, the IC50 values of Br-DIF-1, DIF-3(+2), and Bu-DIF-3 versus cell proliferation were 18.5, 7.2, and 2.0 muM, respectively, in LM8 cells, and >20, 14.8, and 4.3 muM, respectively, in mouse 3T3-L1 fibroblasts (non-transformed). Together, our results demonstrate that Br-DIF-1 in particular may be a valuable tool for the analysis of cancer cell migration, and that DIF derivatives such as DIF-3(+2) and Bu-DIF-3 are promising lead anti-tumor agents for the development of therapies that suppress osteosarcoma cell proliferation, migration, and metastasis.

Krishnamurthy, S., et al. (2015). "Parallel Allostery by cAMP and PDE Coordinates Activation and Termination Phases in cAMP Signaling." Biophys J 109(6): 1251-1263.
	The second messenger molecule cAMP regulates the activation phase of the cAMP signaling pathway through high-affinity interactions with the cytosolic cAMP receptor, the protein kinase A regulatory subunit (PKAR). Phosphodiesterases (PDEs) are enzymes responsible for catalyzing hydrolysis of cAMP to 5' AMP. It was recently shown that PDEs interact with PKAR to initiate the termination phase of the cAMP signaling pathway. While the steps in the activation phase are well understood, steps in the termination pathway are unknown. Specifically, the binding and allosteric networks that regulate the dynamic interplay between PKAR, PDE, and cAMP are unclear. In this study, PKAR and PDE from Dictyostelium discoideum (RD and RegA, respectively) were used as a model system to monitor complex formation in the presence and absence of cAMP. Amide hydrogen/deuterium exchange mass spectrometry was used to monitor slow conformational transitions in RD, using disordered regions as conformational probes. Our results reveal that RD regulates its interactions with cAMP and RegA at distinct loci by undergoing slow conformational transitions between two metastable states. In the presence of cAMP, RD and RegA form a stable ternary complex, while in the absence of cAMP they maintain transient interactions. RegA and cAMP each bind at orthogonal sites on RD with resultant contrasting effects on its dynamics through parallel allosteric relays at multiple important loci. RD thus serves as an integrative node in cAMP termination by coordinating multiple allosteric relays and governing the output signal response.

Komatsuzaki, A., et al. (2015). "Compact halo-ligand-conjugated quantum dots for multicolored single-molecule imaging of overcrowding GPCR proteins on cell membranes." Small 11(12): 1396-1401.
	To detect single molecules within the optical diffraction limit (< ca. 200 nm), a multicolored imaging technique is developed using Halo-ligand conjugated quantum dots (Halo-QDs; <6 nm in diameter). Using three types of Halo-QDs, multicolored single-molecule fluorescence imaging of GPCR proteins in Dictyostelium cells is achieved.

Kim, Y. M., et al. (2015). "Dictyostelium discoideum Ax2 as an Assay System for Screening of Pharmacological Chaperones for Phenylketonuria Mutations." J Microbiol Biotechnol 25(6): 782-787.
	In this study, we developed an assay system for missense mutations in human phenylalanine hydroxylases (hPAHs). To demonstrate the reliability of the system, eight mutant proteins (F39L, K42I, L48S, I65T, R252Q, L255V, S349L, and R408W) were expressed in a mutant strain (pah(-)) of Dictyostelium discoideum Ax2 disrupted in the indigenous gene encoding PAH. The transformed pah- cells grown in FM minimal medium were measured for growth rate and PAH activity to reveal a positive correlation between them. The protein level of hPAH was also determined by western blotting to show the impact of each mutation on protein stability and catalytic activity. The result was highly compatible with the previous ones obtained from other expression systems, suggesting that Dictyostelium is a dependable alternative to other expression systems. Furthermore, we found that both the protein level and activity of S349L and R408W, which were impaired severely in protein stability, were rescued in HL5 nutrient medium. Although the responsible component(s) remains unidentified, this unexpected finding showed an important advantage of our expression system for studying unstable proteins. As an economic and stable cell-based expression system, our development will contribute to mass-screening of pharmacological chaperones for missense PAH mutations as well as to the in-depth characterization of individual mutations.

Kim, M. K., et al. (2015). "Structure of the 34 kDa F-actin-bundling protein ABP34 from Dictyostelium discoideum." Acta Crystallogr D Biol Crystallogr 71(Pt 9): 1835-1849.
	The crystal structure of the 34 kDa F-actin-bundling protein ABP34 from Dictyostelium discoideum was solved by Ca(2+)/S-SAD phasing and refined at 1.89 A resolution. ABP34 is a calcium-regulated actin-binding protein that cross-links actin filaments into bundles. Its in vitro F-actin-binding and F-actin-bundling activities were confirmed by a co-sedimentation assay and transmission electron microscopy. The co-localization of ABP34 with actin in cells was also verified. ABP34 adopts a two-domain structure with an EF-hand-containing N-domain and an actin-binding C-domain, but has no reported overall structural homologues. The EF-hand is occupied by a calcium ion with a pentagonal bipyramidal coordination as in the canonical EF-hand. The C-domain structure resembles a three-helical bundle and superposes well onto the rod-shaped helical structures of some cytoskeletal proteins. Residues 216-244 in the C-domain form part of the strongest actin-binding sites (193-254) and exhibit a conserved sequence with the actin-binding region of alpha-actinin and ABP120. Furthermore, the second helical region of the C-domain is kinked by a proline break, offering a convex surface towards the solvent area which is implicated in actin binding. The F-actin-binding model suggests that ABP34 binds to the side of the actin filament and residues 216-244 fit into a pocket between actin subdomains -1 and -2 through hydrophobic interactions. These studies provide insights into the calcium coordination in the EF-hand and F-actin-binding site in the C-domain of ABP34, which are associated through interdomain interactions.

Kawata, T., et al. (2015). "Implications of expansin-like 3 gene in Dictyostelium morphogenesis." Springerplus 4: 190.
	Dictyostelium harbors multiple expansin-like genes with generally unknown functions. Thus, we analyzed the expansin-like 3 (expL3) gene and found that its expression was reduced in a null mutant for a STATa gene encoding a transcription factor. The expression of expL3 was developmentally regulated and its transcript was spliced only in the multicellular stages. The expL3 promoter was activated in the anterior prestalk region of the parental strain and downregulated in the STATa null slug, although the expL3 promoter was still expressed in the prestalk region. The expL3 overexpressing strain exhibited delayed development and occasionally formed an aberrant structure, i.e., a fruiting body-like structure with a short stalk. The ExpL3-myc protein bound cellulose.

Kawabe, Y., et al. (2015). "A conserved signalling pathway for amoebozoan encystation that was co-opted for multicellular development." Sci Rep 5: 9644.
	The evolution of multicellularity required novel mechanisms for intercellular communication, but their origin is unclear. Dictyostelium cells exchange signals to position specialized cell types in multicellular spore-bearing structures. These signals activate complex pathways that converge on activation of cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA). Genes controlling PKA were detected in the Dictyostelid unicellular ancestors, which like most protists form dormant cysts when experiencing environmental stress. We deleted PKA and the adenylate cyclases AcrA and AcgA, which synthesize cAMP for PKA activation, in the intermediate species Polysphondylium, which can develop into either cysts or into multicellular structures. Loss of PKA prevented multicellular development, but also completely blocked encystation. Loss of AcrA and AcgA, both essential for sporulation in Dictyostelium, did not affect Polysphondylium sporulation, but prevented encystation. We conclude that multicellular cAMP signalling was co-opted from PKA regulation of protist encystation with progressive refunctionalization of pathway components.

Jendresen, C. B., et al. (2015). "Highly Active and Specific Tyrosine Ammonia-Lyases from Diverse Origins Enable Enhanced Production of Aromatic Compounds in Bacteria and Saccharomyces cerevisiae." Appl Environ Microbiol 81(13): 4458-4476.
	Phenylalanine and tyrosine ammonia-lyases form cinnamic acid and p-coumaric acid, which are precursors of a wide range of aromatic compounds of biotechnological interest. Lack of highly active and specific tyrosine ammonia-lyases has previously been a limitation in metabolic engineering approaches. We therefore identified 22 sequences in silico using synteny information and aiming for sequence divergence. We performed a comparative in vivo study, expressing the genes intracellularly in bacteria and yeast. When produced heterologously, some enzymes resulted in significantly higher production of p-coumaric acid in several different industrially important production organisms. Three novel enzymes were found to have activity exclusively for phenylalanine, including an enzyme from the low-GC Gram-positive bacterium Brevibacillus laterosporus, a bacterial-type enzyme from the amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum, and a phenylalanine ammonia-lyase from the moss Physcomitrella patens (producing 230 muM cinnamic acid per unit of optical density at 600 nm [OD600]) in the medium using Escherichia coli as the heterologous host). Novel tyrosine ammonia-lyases having higher reported substrate specificity than previously characterized enzymes were also identified. Enzymes from Herpetosiphon aurantiacus and Flavobacterium johnsoniae resulted in high production of p-coumaric acid in Escherichia coli (producing 440 muM p-coumaric acid OD600 unit(-1) in the medium) and in Lactococcus lactis. The enzymes were also efficient in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, where p-coumaric acid accumulation was improved 5-fold over that in strains expressing previously characterized tyrosine ammonia-lyases.

Jack, C. N., et al. (2015). "Migration in the social stage of Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae impacts competition." PeerJ 3: e1352.
	Interaction conditions can change the balance of cooperation and conflict in multicellular groups. After aggregating together, cells of the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum may migrate as a group (known as a slug) to a new location. We consider this migration stage as an arena for social competition and conflict because the cells in the slug may not be from a genetically homogeneous population. In this study, we examined the interplay of two seemingly diametric actions, the solitary action of kin recognition and the collective action of slug migration in D. discoideum, to more fully understand the effects of social competition on fitness over the entire lifecycle. We compare slugs composed of either genetically homogenous or heterogeneous cells that have migrated or remained stationary in the social stage of the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum. After migration of chimeric slugs, we found that facultative cheating is reduced, where facultative cheating is defined as greater contribution to spore relative to stalk than found for that clone in the clonal state. In addition our results support previous findings that competitive interactions in chimeras diminish slug migration distance. Furthermore, fruiting bodies have shorter stalks after migration, even accounting for cell numbers at that time. Taken together, these results show that migration can alleviate the conflict of interests in heterogeneous slugs. It aligns their interest in finding a more advantageous place for dispersal, where shorter stalks suffice, which leads to a decrease in cheating behavior.

Ishiwata, R. and M. Iwasa (2015). "Extracellular and intracellular factors regulating the migration direction of a chemotactic cell in traveling-wave chemotaxis." Phys Biol 12(2): 026004.
	This report presents a simple model that describes the motion of a single Dictyostelium discoideum cell exposed to a traveling wave of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP). The model incorporates two types of responses to stimulation by cAMP: the changes in the polarity and motility of the cell. The periodic change in motility is assumed to be induced by periodic cAMP stimulation on the basis of previous experimental studies. Consequently, the net migration of the cell occurs in a particular direction with respect to wave propagation, which explains the migration of D. discoideum cells in aggregation. The wave period and the difference between the two response times are important parameters that determine the direction of migration. The theoretical prediction compared with experiments presented in another study. The transition from the single-cell state of the population of D. discoideum cells to the aggregation state is understood to be a specific example of spontaneous breakage of symmetry in biology.

Isezaki, N., et al. (2015). "Dictyostelium acetoacetyl-CoA thiolase is a dual-localizing enzyme that localizes to peroxisomes, mitochondria and the cytosol." Microbiology 161(7): 1471-1484.
	Acetoacetyl-CoA thiolase is an enzyme that catalyses both the CoA-dependent thiolytic cleavage of acetoacetyl-CoA and the reverse condensation reaction. In Dictyostelium discoideum, acetoacetyl-CoA thiolase (DdAcat) is encoded by a single acat gene. The aim of this study was to assess the localization of DdAcat and to determine the mechanism of its cellular localization. Subcellular localization of DdAcat was investigated using a fusion protein with GFP, and it was found to be localized to peroxisomes. The findings showed that the targeting signal of DdAcat to peroxisomes is a unique nonapeptide sequence (15RMYTTAKNL23) similar to the conserved peroxisomal targeting signal-2 (PTS-2). Cell fractionation experiments revealed that DdAcat also exists in the cytosol. Distribution to the cytosol was caused by translational initiation from the second Met codon at position 16. The first 18 N-terminal residues also exhibited function as a mitochondrial targeting signal (MTS). These results indicate that DdAcat is a dual-localizing enzyme that localizes to peroxisomes, mitochondria and the cytosol using both PTS-2 and MTS signals, which overlap each other near the N-terminus, and the alternative utilization of start codons.

Isaac, D. T., et al. (2015). "MavN is a Legionella pneumophila vacuole-associated protein required for efficient iron acquisition during intracellular growth." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 112(37): E5208-5217.
	Iron is essential for the growth and virulence of most intravacuolar pathogens. The mechanisms by which microbes bypass host iron restriction to gain access to this metal across the host vacuolar membrane are poorly characterized. In this work, we identify a unique intracellular iron acquisition strategy used by Legionella pneumophila. The bacterial Icm/Dot (intracellular multiplication/defect in organelle trafficking) type IV secretion system targets the bacterial-derived MavN (more regions allowing vacuolar colocalization N) protein to the surface of the Legionella-containing vacuole where this putative transmembrane protein facilitates intravacuolar iron acquisition. The DeltamavN mutant exhibits a transcriptional iron-starvation signature before its growth is arrested during the very early stages of macrophage infection. This intracellular growth defect is rescued only by the addition of excess exogenous iron to the culture medium and not a variety of other metals. Consistent with MavN being a translocated substrate that plays an exclusive role during intracellular growth, the mutant shows no defect for growth in broth culture, even under severe iron-limiting conditions. Putative iron-binding residues within the MavN protein were identified, and point mutations in these residues resulted in defects specific for intracellular growth that are indistinguishable from the DeltamavN mutant. This model of a bacterial protein inserting into host membranes to mediate iron transport provides a paradigm for how intravacuolar pathogens can use virulence-associated secretion systems to manipulate and acquire host iron.

Imai, H., et al. (2015). "Direct observation shows superposition and large scale flexibility within cytoplasmic dynein motors moving along microtubules." Nat Commun 6: 8179.
	Cytoplasmic dynein is a dimeric AAA(+) motor protein that performs critical roles in eukaryotic cells by moving along microtubules using ATP. Here using cryo-electron microscopy we directly observe the structure of Dictyostelium discoideum dynein dimers on microtubules at near-physiological ATP concentrations. They display remarkable flexibility at a hinge close to the microtubule binding domain (the stalkhead) producing a wide range of head positions. About half the molecules have the two heads separated from one another, with both leading and trailing motors attached to the microtubule. The other half have the two heads and stalks closely superposed in a front-to-back arrangement of the AAA(+) rings, suggesting specific contact between the heads. All stalks point towards the microtubule minus end. Mean stalk angles depend on the separation between their stalkheads, which allows estimation of inter-head tension. These findings provide a structural framework for understanding dynein's directionality and unusual stepping behaviour.

Huber, R. J. and D. H. O'Day (2015). "Proteomic profiling of the extracellular matrix (slime sheath) of Dictyostelium discoideum." Proteomics 15(19): 3315-3319.
	Dictyostelium discoideum has historically served as a model system for cell and developmental biology, but recently it has gained increasing attention as a model for the study of human diseases. The extracellular matrix (ECM) of this eukaryotic microbe serves multiple essential functions during development. It not only provides structural integrity to the moving multicellular pseudoplasmodium, or slug, it also provides components that regulate cell motility and differentiation. An LC/MS/MS analysis of slug ECM revealed the presence of a large number of proteins in two wild-type strains, NC4 and WS380B. GO annotation identified a large number of proteins involved in some form of binding (e.g. protein, polysaccharide, cellulose, carbohydrate, ATP, cAMP, ion, lipid, vitamin), as well as proteins that modulate metabolic processes, cell movement, and multicellular development. In addition, this proteomic analysis identified numerous expected (e.g. EcmA, EcmD, discoidin I, discoidin II), as well as unexpected (e.g. ribosomal and nuclear proteins) components. These topics are discussed in terms of the structure and function of the ECM during the development of this model amoebozoan and their relevance to ongoing biomedical research.

Ho, H. I. and G. Shaulsky (2015). "Temporal regulation of kin recognition maintains recognition-cue diversity and suppresses cheating." Nat Commun 6: 7144.
	Kin recognition, the ability to distinguish kin from non-kin, can facilitate cooperation between relatives. Evolutionary theory predicts that polymorphism in recognition cues, which is essential for effective recognition, would be unstable. Individuals carrying rare recognition cues would benefit less from social interactions than individuals with common cues, leading to loss of the genetic-cue diversity. We test this evolutionary hypothesis in Dictyostelium discoideum, which forms multicellular fruiting bodies by aggregation and utilizes two polymorphic membrane proteins to facilitate preferential cooperation. Surprisingly, we find that rare recognition variants are tolerated and maintain their frequencies among incompatible majority during development. Although the rare variants are initially excluded from the aggregates, they subsequently rejoin the aggregate and produce spores. Social cheating is also refrained in late development, thus limiting the cost of chimerism. Our results suggest a potential mechanism to sustain the evolutionary stability of kin-recognition genes and to suppress cheating.

Hirst, J., et al. (2015). "Cultivation, Transfection, Microscopy and Fractionation." Bio Protoc 5(11).
	The real time visualisation of fluorescently tagged proteins in live cells using ever more sophisticated microscopes has greatly increased our understanding of the dynamics of key proteins during fundamental physiological processes such as cell locomotion, chemotaxis, cell division and membrane trafficking. In addition the fractionation of cells and isolation of organelles or known compartments can often verify any subcellular localisation and the use of tagged proteins as bait for the immunoprecipitation of material from cell fractions can identify specific binding partners and multiprotein complexes thereby helping assign a function to the tagged protein. We have successfully applied these techniques to the Dictyostelium discoideum protein TSPOON that is part of an ancient heterohexamer membrane trafficking complex (Hirst et al., 2013). TSPOON is the product of the tstD gene in Dictyostelium and is not required for growth or the developmental cycle in this organism. Dictyostelium amoebae will exist in a vegetative phase where growth is sustained by the phagocytosis of bacteria. When this food source is spent they enter a developmental phase where the amoebae aggregate, via chemotaxis to extracellular waves of cAMP, into multicellular structures that subsequently form a fruiting body containing viable spores (Muller-Taubenberger et al., 2013). In the laboratory this cycle takes less than 24 h to complete and as a further aid to manipulation the requirement for a bacterial food source has been circumvented by the derivatisation of the wild type and isolation of axenic strains that can also grow in a nutrient rich broth. Axenic strains like Ax2 are the mainstay of laboratory research using Dictyostelium (Muller-Taubenberger et al., 2013). A description of Dictyostelium cell cultivation, the generation of cell lines that overexpress TSPOON-GFP and TSPOON null cells, and subsequent analysis (Muller-Taubenberger and Ishikawa-Ankerhold, 2013) is detailed below.

Hirose, S., et al. (2015). "Allorecognition, via TgrB1 and TgrC1, mediates the transition from unicellularity to multicellularity in the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum." Development 142(20): 3561-3570.
	The social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum integrates into a multicellular organism when individual starving cells aggregate and form a mound. The cells then integrate into defined tissues and develop into a fruiting body that consists of a stalk and spores. Aggregation is initially orchestrated by waves of extracellular cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP), and previous theory suggested that cAMP and other field-wide diffusible signals mediate tissue integration and terminal differentiation as well. Cooperation between cells depends on an allorecognition system comprising the polymorphic adhesion proteins TgrB1 and TgrC1. Binding between compatible TgrB1 and TgrC1 variants ensures that non-matching cells segregate into distinct aggregates prior to terminal development. Here, we have embedded a small number of cells with incompatible allotypes within fields of developing cells with compatible allotypes. We found that compatibility of the allotype encoded by the tgrB1 and tgrC1 genes is required for tissue integration, as manifested in cell polarization, coordinated movement and differentiation into prestalk and prespore cells. Our results show that the molecules that mediate allorecognition in D. discoideum also control the integration of individual cells into a unified developing organism, and this acts as a gating step for multicellularity.

Hillmann, F., et al. (2015). "Virulence determinants of the human pathogenic fungus Aspergillus fumigatus protect against soil amoeba predation." Environ Microbiol 17(8): 2858-2869.
	Filamentous fungi represent classical examples for environmentally acquired human pathogens whose major virulence mechanisms are likely to have emerged long before the appearance of innate immune systems. In natural habitats, amoeba predation could impose a major selection pressure towards the acquisition of virulence attributes. To test this hypothesis, we exploited the amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum to study its interaction with Aspergillus fumigatus, two abundant soil inhabitants for which we found co-occurrence in various sites. Fungal conidia were efficiently taken up by D. discoideum, but ingestion was higher when conidia were devoid of the green fungal spore pigment dihydroxynaphtalene melanin, in line with earlier results obtained for immune cells. Conidia were able to survive phagocytic processing, and intracellular germination was initiated only after several hours of co-incubation which eventually led to a lethal disruption of the host cell. Besides phagocytic interactions, both amoeba and fungus secreted cross inhibitory factors which suppressed fungal growth or induced amoeba aggregation with subsequent cell lysis, respectively. On the fungal side, we identified gliotoxin as the major fungal factor killing Dictyostelium, supporting the idea that major virulence attributes, such as escape from phagocytosis and the secretion of mycotoxins are beneficial to escape from environmental predators.

Heusinger, E., et al. (2015). "Early Vertebrate Evolution of the Host Restriction Factor Tetherin." J Virol 89(23): 12154-12165.
	Tetherin is an interferon-inducible restriction factor targeting a broad range of enveloped viruses. Its antiviral activity depends on an unusual topology comprising an N-terminal transmembrane domain (TMD) followed by an extracellular coiled-coil region and a C-terminal glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchor. One of the two membrane anchors is inserted into assembling virions, while the other remains in the plasma membrane of the infected cell. Thus, tetherin entraps budding viruses by physically bridging viral and cellular membranes. Although tetherin restricts the release of a large variety of diverse human and animal viruses, only mammalian orthologs have been described to date. Here, we examined the evolutionary origin of this protein and demonstrate that tetherin orthologs are also found in fish, reptiles, and birds. Notably, alligator tetherin efficiently blocks the release of retroviral particles. Thus, tetherin emerged early during vertebrate evolution and acquired its antiviral activity before the mammal/reptile divergence. Although there is only limited sequence homology, all orthologs share the typical topology. Two unrelated proteins of the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum also adopt a tetherin-like configuration with an N-terminal TMD and a C-terminal GPI anchor. However, these proteins showed no evidence for convergent evolution and failed to inhibit virion release. In summary, our findings demonstrate that tetherin emerged at least 450 million years ago and is more widespread than previously anticipated. The early evolution of antiviral activity together with the high topology conservation but low sequence homology suggests that restriction of virus release is the primary function of tetherin. IMPORTANCE: The continuous arms race with viruses has driven the evolution of a variety of cell-intrinsic immunity factors that inhibit different steps of the viral replication cycle. One of these restriction factors, tetherin, inhibits the release of newly formed progeny virions from infected cells. Although tetherin targets a broad range of enveloped viruses, including retro-, filo-, herpes-, and arenaviruses, the evolutionary origin of this restriction factor and its antiviral activity remained obscure. Here, we examined diverse vertebrate genomes for genes encoding cellular proteins that share with tetherin the highly unusual combination of an N-terminal transmembrane domain and a C-terminal glycosylphosphatidylinositol anchor. We show that tetherin orthologs are found in fish, reptiles, and birds and demonstrate that alligator tetherin efficiently inhibits the release of retroviral particles. Our findings identify tetherin as an evolutionarily ancient restriction factor and provide new important insights into the continuous arms race between viruses and their hosts.

Graf, R., et al. (2015). "Evolution of centrosomes and the nuclear lamina: Amoebozoan assets." Eur J Cell Biol 94(6): 249-256.
	The current eukaryotic tree of life groups most eukaryotes into one of five supergroups, the Opisthokonta, Amoebozoa, Archaeplastida, Excavata and SAR (Stramenopile, Alveolata, Rhizaria). Molecular and comparative morphological analyses revealed that the last eukaryotic common ancestor (LECA) already contained a rather sophisticated equipment of organelles including a mitochondrion, an endomembrane system, a nucleus with a lamina, a microtubule-organizing center (MTOC), and a flagellar apparatus. Recent studies of MTOCs, basal bodies/centrioles, and nuclear envelope organization of organisms in different supergroups have clarified our picture of how the nucleus and MTOCs co-evolved from LECA to extant eukaryotes. In this review we summarize these findings with special emphasis on valuable contributions of research on a lamin-like protein, nuclear envelope proteins, and the MTOC in the amoebozoan model organism Dictyostelium discoideum.

Grace, M. and M. T. Hutt (2015). "Regulation of Spatiotemporal Patterns by Biological Variability: General Principles and Applications to Dictyostelium discoideum." PLoS Comput Biol 11(11): e1004367.
	Spatiotemporal patterns often emerge from local interactions in a self-organizing fashion. In biology, the resulting patterns are also subject to the influence of the systematic differences between the system's constituents (biological variability). This regulation of spatiotemporal patterns by biological variability is the topic of our review. We discuss several examples of correlations between cell properties and the self-organized spatiotemporal patterns, together with their relevance for biology. Our guiding, illustrative example will be spiral waves of cAMP in a colony of Dictyostelium discoideum cells. Analogous processes take place in diverse situations (such as cardiac tissue, where spiral waves occur in potentially fatal ventricular fibrillation) so a deeper understanding of this additional layer of self-organized pattern formation would be beneficial to a wide range of applications. One of the most striking differences between pattern-forming systems in physics or chemistry and those in biology is the potential importance of variability. In the former, system components are essentially identical with random fluctuations determining the details of the self-organization process and the resulting patterns. In biology, due to variability, the properties of potentially very few cells can have a driving influence on the resulting asymptotic collective state of the colony. Variability is one means of implementing a few-element control on the collective mode. Regulatory architectures, parameters of signaling cascades, and properties of structure formation processes can be "reverse-engineered" from observed spatiotemporal patterns, as different types of regulation and forms of interactions between the constituents can lead to markedly different correlations. The power of this biology-inspired view of pattern formation lies in building a bridge between two scales: the patterns as a collective state of a very large number of cells on the one hand, and the internal parameters of the single cells on the other.

Gilsbach, B. K., et al. (2015). "Structural Characterization of LRRK2 Inhibitors." J Med Chem 58(9): 3751-3756.
	Kinase inhibition is considered to be an important therapeutic target for LRRK2 mediated Parkinson's disease (PD). Many LRRK2 kinase inhibitors have been reported but have yet to be optimized in order to qualify as drug candidates for the treatment of the disease. In order to start a structure-function analysis of such inhibitors, we mutated the active site of Dictyostelium Roco4 kinase to resemble LRRK2. Here, we show saturation transfer difference (STD) NMR and the first cocrystal structures of two potent in vitro inhibitors, LRRK2-IN-1 and compound 19, with mutated Roco4. Our data demonstrate that this system can serve as an excellent tool for the structural characterization and optimization of LRRK2 inhibitors using X-ray crystallography and NMR spectroscopy.

Gholami, A., et al. (2015). "Flow-driven waves and phase-locked self-organization in quasi-one-dimensional colonies of Dictyostelium discoideum." Phys Rev Lett 114(1): 018103.
	We report experiments on flow-driven waves in a microfluidic channel containing the signaling slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. The observed cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) wave trains developed spontaneously in the presence of flow and propagated with the velocity proportional to the imposed flow velocity. The period of the wave trains was independent of the flow velocity. Perturbations of flow-driven waves via external periodic pulses of the signaling agent cAMP induced 1ratio1, 2ratio1, 3ratio1, and 1ratio2 frequency responses, reminiscent of Arnold tongues in forced oscillatory systems. We expect our observations to be generic to active media governed by reaction-diffusion-advection dynamics, where spatially bound autocatalytic processes occur under flow conditions.

Gerstenmaier, L., et al. (2015). "The autophagic machinery ensures nonlytic transmission of mycobacteria." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 112(7): E687-692.
	In contrast to mechanisms mediating uptake of intracellular bacterial pathogens, bacterial egress and cell-to-cell transmission are poorly understood. Previously, we showed that the transmission of pathogenic mycobacteria between phagocytic cells also depends on nonlytic ejection through an F-actin based structure, called the ejectosome. How the host cell maintains integrity of its plasma membrane during the ejection process was unknown. Here, we reveal an unexpected function for the autophagic machinery in nonlytic spreading of bacteria. We show that ejecting mycobacteria are escorted by a distinct polar autophagocytic vacuole. If autophagy is impaired, cell-to-cell transmission is inhibited, the host plasma membrane becomes compromised and the host cells die. These findings highlight a previously unidentified, highly ordered interaction between bacteria and the autophagic pathway and might represent the ancient way to ensure nonlytic egress of bacteria.

Garige, M. and E. Walters (2015). "Curcumin inhibits development and cell adhesion in Dictyostelium discoideum: Implications for YakA signaling and GST enzyme function." Biochem Biophys Res Commun 467(2): 275-281.
	The molecular basis for nutraceutical properties of the polyphenol curcumin (Curcuma longa, Turmeric) is complex, affecting multiple factors that regulate cell signaling and homeostasis. Here, we report the effect of curcumin on cellular and developmental mechanisms in the eukaryotic model, Dictyostelium discoideum. Dictyostelium proliferation was inhibited in the presence of curcumin, which also suppressed the prestarvation marker, discoidin I, members of the yakA-mediated developmental signaling pathway, and expression of the extracellular matrix/cell adhesion proteins (DdCAD and csA). This resulted in delayed chemotaxis, adhesion, and development of the organism. In contrast to the inhibitory effects on developmental genes, curcumin induced gstA gene expression, overall GST activity, and generated production of reactive oxygen species. These studies expand our knowledge of developmental and biochemical signaling influenced by curcumin, and lends greater consideration of GST enzyme function in eukaryotic cell signaling, development, and differentiation.

Gao, R., et al. (2015). "A large-scale screen reveals genes that mediate electrotaxis in Dictyostelium discoideum." Sci Signal 8(378): ra50.
	Directional cell migration in an electric field, a phenomenon called galvanotaxis or electrotaxis, occurs in many types of cells, and may play an important role in wound healing and development. Small extracellular electric fields can guide the migration of amoeboid cells, and we established a large-scale screening approach to search for mutants with electrotaxis phenotypes from a collection of 563 Dictyostelium discoideum strains with morphological defects. We identified 28 strains that were defective in electrotaxis and 10 strains with a slightly higher directional response. Using plasmid rescue followed by gene disruption, we identified some of the mutated genes, including some previously implicated in chemotaxis. Among these, we studied PiaA, which encodes a critical component of TORC2, a kinase protein complex that transduces changes in motility by activating the kinase PKB (also known as Akt). Furthermore, we found that electrotaxis was decreased in mutants lacking gefA, rasC, rip3, lst8, or pkbR1, genes that encode other components of the TORC2-PKB pathway. Thus, we have developed a high-throughput screening technique that will be a useful tool to elucidate the molecular mechanisms of electrotaxis.

Friedrich, M., et al. (2015). "A Simple Retroelement Based Knock-Down System in Dictyostelium: Further Insights into RNA Interference Mechanisms." PLoS One 10(6): e0131271.
	CHARACTERISTICS OF DIRS-1 MEDIATED KNOCK-DOWNS: We have previously shown that the most abundant Dictyostelium discoideum retroelement DIRS-1 is suppressed by RNAi mechanisms. Here we provide evidence that both inverted terminal repeats have strong promoter activity and that bidirectional expression apparently generates a substrate for Dicer. A cassette containing the inverted terminal repeats and a fragment of a gene of interest was sufficient to activate the RNAi response, resulting in the generation of ~21 nt siRNAs, a reduction of mRNA and protein expression of the respective endogene. Surprisingly, no transitivity was observed on the endogene. This was in contrast to previous observations, where endogenous siRNAs caused spreading on an artificial transgene. Knock-down was successful on seven target genes that we examined. In three cases a phenotypic analysis proved the efficiency of the approach. One of the target genes was apparently essential because no knock-out could be obtained; the RNAi mediated knock-down, however, resulted in a very slow growing culture indicating a still viable reduction of gene expression. ADVANTAGES OF THE DIRS-1-RNAI SYSTEM: The knock-down system required a short DNA fragment (~400 bp) of the target gene as an initial trigger. Further siRNAs were generated by RdRPs since we have shown some siRNAs with a 5'-triphosphate group. Extrachromosomal vectors facilitate the procedure and allowed for molecular and phenotypic analysis within one week. The system provides an efficient and rapid method to reduce protein levels including those of essential genes.

Frederiksen, R. F., et al. (2015). "A diverse range of bacterial and eukaryotic chitinases hydrolyze the LacNAc (Galbeta1-4GlcNAc) and LacdiNAc (GalNAcbeta1-4GlcNAc) motifs found on vertebrate and insect cells." J Biol Chem.
	There is emerging evidence that chitinases have additional functions beyond degrading environmental chitin, such as involvement in innate and acquired immune responses, tissue remodeling, fibrosis and serving as virulence factors of bacterial pathogens. We have recently shown that both the human chitotriosidase and a chitinase from Salmonella enterica serovar Typhimurium hydrolyze LacNAc from Galbeta1-4GlcNAcbeta-tetramethylrhodamine (LacNAc-TMR1), a fluorescently labelled model substrate for glycans found in mammals. In this study, we have examined the binding affinities of the Salmonella chitinase by carbohydrate microarray screening and found that it binds to a range of compounds, including five that contain LacNAc structures. We have further examined the hydrolytic specificity of this enzyme and chitinases from Sodalis glossinidius and Polysphondylium pallidum, which are phylogenetically related to the Salmonella chitinase, as well as unrelated chitinases from Listeria monocytogenes using the fluorescently labelled substrate analogs LacdiNAc-TMR (GalNAcbeta1-4GlcNAcbeta-TMR), LacNAc-TMR and LacNAcbeta1-6LacNAcbeta-TMR. We found that all chitinases examined hydrolyzed LacdiNAc from the TMR aglycone to various degrees, while they were less active towards LacNAc-TMR conjugates. LacdiNAc is found in the mammalian glycome and is a common motif in invertebrate glycans. This substrate specificity was evident for chitinases of different phylogenetic origins. Three of the chitinases also hydrolyzed the beta1-6 bond in LacNAcbeta1-6LacNAcbeta-TMR, an activity that is of potential importance in relation to mammalian glycans. The enzymatic affinities for these mammalian-like structures suggest additional functional roles of chitinases beyond chitin hydrolysis.

Frederiksen, R. F. and J. J. Leisner (2015). "Effects of Listeria monocytogenes EGD-e and Salmonella enterica ser. Typhimurium LT2 chitinases on intracellular survival in Dictyostelium discoideum and mammalian cell lines." FEMS Microbiol Lett 362(10).
	Some bacterial pathogens produce chitinases as virulence factors during host infection. The molecular target of such enzymes in non-chitinous hosts remains uncertain. We studied the importance of Listeria monocytogenes EGD-e and Salmonella enterica ser. Typhimurium LT2 chitinases for intracellular survival in Dictyostelium discoideum, and for Salmonella, also infection of mammalian cell lines, and a mouse model. The Salmonella chitinase did not contribute significantly to infection of D. discoideum, mammalian cell lines or mice. However, survival in D. discoideum was clearly reduced for Listeria mutants deficient of ChiB (8-fold) or deficient of both ChiA and ChiB (22-fold). Our findings suggest that chitinases from the two species play different roles in virulence.

Feasley, C. L., et al. (2015). "Evolutionary diversity of social amoebae N-glycomes may support interspecific autonomy." Glycoconj J 32(6): 345-359.
	Multiple species of cellular slime mold (CSM) amoebae share overlapping subterranean environments near the soil surface. Despite similar life-styles, individual species form independent starvation-induced fruiting bodies whose spores can renew the life cycle. N-glycans associated with the cell surface glycocalyx have been predicted to contribute to interspecific avoidance, resistance to pathogens, and prey preference. N-glycans from five CSM species that diverged 300-600 million years ago and whose genomes have been sequenced were fractionated into neutral and acidic pools and profiled by MALDI-TOF-MS. Glycan structure models were refined using linkage specific antibodies, exoglycosidase digestions, MALDI-MS/MS, and chromatographic studies. Amoebae of the type species Dictyostelium discoideum express modestly trimmed high mannose N-glycans variably modified with core alpha3-linked Fuc and peripherally decorated with 0-2 residues each of beta-GlcNAc, Fuc, methylphosphate and/or sulfate, as reported previously. Comparative analyses of D. purpureum, D. fasciculatum, Polysphondylium pallidum, and Actyostelium subglobosum revealed that each displays a distinctive spectrum of high-mannose species with quantitative variations in the extent of these modifications, and qualitative differences including retention of Glc, mannose methylation, and absence of a peripheral GlcNAc, fucosylation, or sulfation. Starvation-induced development modifies the pattern in all species but, except for universally observed increased mannose-trimming, the N-glycans do not converge to a common profile. Correlations with glycogene repertoires will enable future reverse genetic studies to eliminate N-glycomic differences to test their functions in interspecific relations and pathogen evasion.

Fan, D. and L. S. Hou (2015). "Novel zinc protease gene isolated from Dictyostelium discoideum is structurally related to mammalian leukotriene A4 hydrolase." Genet Mol Res 14(4): 16332-16342.
	The allantoicase (allC) gene of Dictyostelium discoideum allC RNAi mutant strain was silenced using the RNA interference technique. The mutant strain is motile, aggregated, and could not undergo further morphological development. The growth rate is high and the cells show a shortened cell cycle comparing with wild-type D. discoideum. However, the mechanisms regarding these actions remain unclear. mRNA differential display was used in this study to identify genetic differences. A novel D. discoideum gene (GenBank accession number: KC759140) encoding a new zinc protease was cloned. The amino acid sequence of the novel gene exhibited a conserved zinc-binding domain (HEX2HX18E) that allowed its classification into the M1 family of metallopeptidases. The gene encoded a 345-amino acid protein with a theoretical molecular mass of 39.69 kDa and a theoretical pI of 6.05. This protein showed strong homology with leukotriene A4 (LTA4) hydrolase of Homo sapiens (41% identity and 60% similarity at the amino acid level). By analyzing quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction data, this zinc protease gene was more highly expressed in D. discoideum allC RNAi mutant type than in wild-type KAx-3 cells during the trophophase. The novel zinc protease gene may function as an LTA4 hydrolase and contribute to the shortening of the allC RNAi mutant cell cycle.

Du, Q., et al. (2015). "The Evolution of Aggregative Multicellularity and Cell-Cell Communication in the Dictyostelia." J Mol Biol 427(23): 3722-3733.
	Aggregative multicellularity, resulting in formation of a spore-bearing fruiting body, evolved at least six times independently amongst both eukaryotes and prokaryotes. Amongst eukaryotes, this form of multicellularity is mainly studied in the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum. In this review, we summarise trends in the evolution of cell-type specialisation and behavioural complexity in the four major groups of Dictyostelia. We describe the cell-cell communication systems that control the developmental programme of D. discoideum, highlighting the central role of cAMP in the regulation of cell movement and cell differentiation. Comparative genomic studies showed that the proteins involved in cAMP signalling are deeply conserved across Dictyostelia and their unicellular amoebozoan ancestors. Comparative functional analysis revealed that cAMP signalling in D. discoideum originated from a second messenger role in amoebozoan encystation. We highlight some molecular changes in cAMP signalling genes that were responsible for the novel roles of cAMP in multicellular development.

DiSalvo, S., et al. (2015). "Burkholderia bacteria infectiously induce the proto-farming symbiosis of Dictyostelium amoebae and food bacteria." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 112(36): E5029-5037.
	Symbiotic associations can allow an organism to acquire novel traits by accessing the genetic repertoire of its partner. In the Dictyostelium discoideum farming symbiosis, certain amoebas (termed "farmers") stably associate with bacterial partners. Farmers can suffer a reproductive cost but also gain beneficial capabilities, such as carriage of bacterial food (proto-farming) and defense against competitors. Farming status previously has been attributed to amoeba genotype, but the role of bacterial partners in its induction has not been examined. Here, we explore the role of bacterial associates in the initiation, maintenance, and phenotypic effects of the farming symbiosis. We demonstrate that two clades of farmer-associated Burkholderia isolates colonize D. discoideum nonfarmers and infectiously endow them with farmer-like characteristics, indicating that Burkholderia symbionts are a major driver of the farming phenomenon. Under food-rich conditions, Burkholderia-colonized amoebas produce fewer spores than uncolonized counterparts, with the severity of this reduction being dependent on the Burkholderia colonizer. However, the induction of food carriage by Burkholderia colonization may be considered a conditionally adaptive trait because it can confer an advantage to the amoeba host when grown in food-limiting conditions. We observed Burkholderia inside and outside colonized D. discoideum spores after fruiting body formation; this observation, together with the ability of Burkholderia to colonize new amoebas, suggests a mixed mode of symbiont transmission. These results change our understanding of the D. discoideum farming symbiosis by establishing that the bacterial partner, Burkholderia, is an important causative agent of the farming phenomenon.

Dickinson, D. J., et al. (2015). "Studying epithelial morphogenesis in Dictyostelium." Methods Mol Biol 1189: 267-281.
	The discovery of polarized epithelial tissue in the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum establishes this classical model organism as a novel system for the study of epithelial polarity and morphogenesis. D. discoideum grows as single cells and is easily maintained in cell culture. Starvation of the cells triggers a multicellular developmental process that culminates with the formation of a fruiting body, whose normal morphogenesis is dependent on a polarized epithelium located at the apex of the developing structure. Here, we discuss techniques for genetic manipulation and imaging of multicellular D. discoideum, with a focus on methods that have facilitated the study of the epithelial tissue in this organism.

Devreotes, P. and A. R. Horwitz (2015). "Signaling networks that regulate cell migration." Cold Spring Harb Perspect Biol 7(8): a005959.
	SUMMARY: Stimuli that promote cell migration, such as chemokines, cytokines, and growth factors in metazoans and cyclic AMP in Dictyostelium, activate signaling pathways that control organization of the actin cytoskeleton and adhesion complexes. The Rho-family GTPases are a key convergence point of these pathways. Their effectors include actin regulators such as formins, members of the WASP/WAVE family and the Arp2/3 complex, and the myosin II motor protein. Pathways that link to the Rho GTPases include Ras GTPases, TorC2, and PI3K. Many of the molecules involved form gradients within cells, which define the front and rear of migrating cells, and are also established in related cellular behaviors such as neuronal growth cone extension and cytokinesis. The signaling molecules that regulate migration can be integrated to provide a model of network function. The network displays biochemical excitability seen as spontaneous waves of activation that propagate along the cell cortex. These events coordinate cell movement and can be biased by external cues to bring about directed migration.

Denton, D., et al. (2015). "Autophagy as a pro-death pathway." Immunol Cell Biol 93(1): 35-42.
	The evolutionarily conserved catabolic process of autophagy involves the degradation of cytoplasmic components through lysosomal enzymes. Basal levels of autophagy maintain cellular homeostasis and under stress conditions high levels of autophagy are induced. It is often under such stress conditions that high levels of autophagy and cell death have been observed, leading to the idea that autophagy may act as an executioner of cell death. However the notion of autophagy as a cell death mechanism has been controversial and remains mechanistically undefined. There is now growing evidence that in specific contexts autophagy can indeed facilitate cell death. The pro-death role of autophagy is however complicated due to the extensive cross-talk between different signalling pathways. This review summarises the examples of where autophagy acts as a means of cell death and discusses the association of autophagy with the different cell death pathways.

Deckstein, J., et al. (2015). "The Dictyostelium discoideum GPHR Ortholog Is an Endoplasmic Reticulum and Golgi Protein with Roles during Development." Eukaryot Cell 14(1): 41-54.
	Dictyostelium discoideum GPHR (Golgi pH regulator)/Gpr89 is a developmentally regulated transmembrane protein present on the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) and the Golgi apparatus. Transcript levels are low during growth and vary during development, reaching high levels during the aggregation and late developmental stages. The Arabidopsis ortholog was described as a G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) for abscisic acid present at the plasma membrane, whereas the mammalian ortholog is a Golgi apparatus-associated anion channel functioning as a Golgi apparatus pH regulator. To probe its role in D. discoideum, we generated a strain lacking GPHR. The mutant had different growth characteristics than the AX2 parent strain, exhibited changes during late development, and formed abnormally shaped small slugs and fruiting bodies. An analysis of development-specific markers revealed that their expression was disturbed. The distributions of the endoplasmic reticulum and the Golgi apparatus were unaltered at the immunofluorescence level. Likewise, their functions did not appear to be impaired, since membrane proteins were properly processed and glycosylated. Also, changes in the external pH were sensed by the ER, as indicated by a pH-sensitive ER probe, as in the wild type.

Dance, A., et al. (2015). "Enhanced early-life nutrition promotes hormone production and reproductive development in Holstein bulls." J Dairy Sci 98(2): 987-998.
	Holstein bull calves often reach artificial insemination centers in suboptimal body condition. Early-life nutrition is reported to increase reproductive performance in beef bulls. The objective was to determine whether early-life nutrition in Holstein bulls had effects similar to those reported in beef bulls. Twenty-six Holstein bull calves were randomly allocated into 3 groups at approximately 1 wk of age to receive a low-, medium-, or high-nutrition diet, based on levels of energy and protein, from 2 to 31 wk of age. Calves were on their respective diets until 31 wk of age, after which they were all fed a medium-nutrition diet. To evaluate secretion profiles and concentrations of blood hormones, a subset of bulls was subjected to intensive blood sampling every 4 wk from 11 to 31 wk of age. Testes of all bulls were measured once a month; once scrotal circumference reached 26cm, semen collection was attempted (by electroejaculation) every 2 wk to confirm puberty. Bulls were maintained until approximately 72 wk of age and then slaughtered at a local abattoir. Testes were recovered and weighed. Bulls fed the high-nutrition diet were younger at puberty (high=324.3 d, low=369.3 d) and had larger testes for the entire experimental period than bulls fed the low-nutrition diet. Bulls fed the high-nutrition diet also had an earlier and more substantial early rise in LH than those fed the low-nutrition diet and had increased concentrations of insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) earlier than the bulls fed the low-nutrition diet. Furthermore, we detected a temporal association between increased IGF-I concentrations and an early LH rise in bulls fed the high-nutrition diet. Therefore, we inferred that IGF-I had a role in regulating the early gonadotropin rise (in particular, LH) and thus reproductive development of Holstein bulls. Overall, these results support our hypothesis that Holstein bull calves fed a high-nutrition diet reach puberty earlier and have larger testes than those fed a low-nutrition diet, and they provide clear evidence that nutritional modulation of Holstein bull calves during early life has profound effects on reproductive development.

Cunliffe, V. T., et al. (2015). "Epilepsy research methods update: Understanding the causes of epileptic seizures and identifying new treatments using non-mammalian model organisms." Seizure 24: 44-51.
	This narrative review is intended to introduce clinicians treating epilepsy and researchers familiar with mammalian models of epilepsy to experimentally tractable, non-mammalian research models used in epilepsy research, ranging from unicellular eukaryotes to more complex multicellular organisms. The review focuses on four model organisms: the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum, the roundworm Caenorhabditis elegans, the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster and the zebrafish Danio rerio. We consider recent discoveries made with each model organism and discuss the importance of these advances for the understanding and treatment of epilepsy in humans. The relative ease with which mutations in genes of interest can be produced and studied quickly and cheaply in these organisms, together with their anatomical and physiological simplicity in comparison to mammalian species, are major advantages when researchers are trying to unravel complex disease mechanisms. The short generation times of most of these model organisms also mean that they lend themselves particularly conveniently to the investigation of drug effects or epileptogenic processes across the lifecourse.

Corrigan, A. M. and J. R. Chubb (2015). "Quantitative measurement of transcription dynamics in living cells." Methods Cell Biol 125: 29-41.
	In a wide range of organisms the kinetics of transcription have been found to be noisy, with "bursts" or "pulses" of transcription interspersed with irregular periods of inactivity. The in vivo analysis of transcription dynamics can be most directly monitored using RNA stem loop motifs derived from MS2 and other bacteriophages. Here we describe the implementation of the MS2 RNA detection system and the steps required for precise measurement of transcription dynamics in highly motile cells. Automated image processing techniques are used to track large numbers of cells and measure transcription in a systematic and unbiased manner. We discuss popular methods for automatic image segmentation and frame-to-frame tracking of cells, and the considerations required to make measurements as quantitatively as possible.

Cocorocchio, M., et al. (2015). "Bitter tastant responses in the amoeba Dictyostelium correlate with rat and human taste assays." Altex.
	Treatment compliance is reduced when pharmaceutical compounds have a bitter taste and this is particularly marked for paediatric medications. Identification of bitter taste liability during drug discovery utilises the rat in vivo brief access taste aversion (BATA) test which apart from animal use is time consuming with limited throughput. We investigated the suitability of using a simple, non-animal model, the amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum to investigate taste-related responses and particularly identification of compounds with a bitter taste liability. The effect of taste-related compounds on Dictyostelium behaviour following acute exposure (15 minutes) was monitored. Dictyostelium did not respond to salty, sour, umami or sweet tasting compounds, however, cells rapidly responded to bitter tastants. Using time-lapse photography and computer-generated quantification to monitor changes in cell membrane movement, we developed an assay to assess the response of Dictyostelium to a wide range of structurally diverse known bitter compounds and blinded compounds. Dictyostelium showed varying responses to the bitter tastants, with IC50 values providing a rank order of potency. Comparison of Dictyostelium IC50 values to those observed in response to a similar range of compounds in the rat in vivo brief access taste aversion test showed a significant (p = 0.0172) positive correlation between the two models, and additionally a similar response to that provided by a human sensory panel assessment test. These experiments demonstrate that Dictyostelium may provide a suitable model for early prediction of bitterness for novel tastants and drugs. Interestingly, a response to bitter tastants appears conserved from single-celled amoebae to humans.

Clemen, C. S., et al. (2015). "VCP and PSMF1: Antagonistic regulators of proteasome activity." Biochem Biophys Res Commun 463(4): 1210-1217.
	Protein turnover and quality control by the proteasome is of paramount importance for cell homeostasis. Dysfunction of the proteasome is associated with aging processes and human diseases such as neurodegeneration, cardiomyopathy, and cancer. The regulation, i.e. activation and inhibition of this fundamentally important protein degradation system, is still widely unexplored. We demonstrate here that the evolutionarily highly conserved type II triple-A ATPase VCP and the proteasome inhibitor PSMF1/PI31 interact directly, and antagonistically regulate proteasomal activity. Our data provide novel insights into the regulation of proteasomal activity.

Chinoy, Z. S., et al. (2015). "Chemical Synthesis of a Glycopeptide Derived from Skp1 for Probing Protein Specific Glycosylation." Chemistry 21(33): 11779-11787.
	Skp1 is a cytoplasmic and nuclear protein, best known as an adaptor of the SCF family of E3-ubiquitin ligases that label proteins for their degradation. Skp1 in Dictyostelium is posttranslationally modified on a specific hydroxyproline (Hyp) residue by a pentasaccharide, which consists of a Fucalpha1,2-Galbeta-1,3-GlcNAcalpha core, decorated with two alpha-linked Gal residues. A glycopeptide derived form Skp1 was prepared to characterize the alpha-galactosyltransferase (AgtA) that mediates the addition of the alpha-Gal moieties, and to develop antibodies suitable for tracking the trisaccharide isoform of Skp1 in cells. A strategy was developed for the synthesis of the core trisaccharide-Hyp based on the use of 2-naphthylmethyl (Nap) ethers as permanent protecting groups to allow late stage installation of the Hyp moiety. Tuning of glycosyl donor and acceptor reactivities was critical for achieving high yields and anomeric selectivities of glycosylations. The trisaccharide-Hyp moiety was employed for the preparation of the glycopeptide using microwave-assisted solid phase peptide synthesis. Enzyme kinetic studies revealed that trisaccharide-Hyp and trisaccharide-peptide are poorly recognized by AgtA, indicating the importance of context provided by the native Skp1 protein for engagement with the active site. The trisaccharide-peptide was a potent immunogen capable of generating a rabbit antiserum that was highly selective toward the trisaccharide isoform of full-length Skp1.

Chen, Z. H. and P. Schaap (2015). "Secreted cyclic-di-GMP induces stalk cell differentiation in the eukaryote Dictyostelium discoideum." J Bacteriol.
	Cyclic-di-GMP is currently recognized as the most widely used intracellular signal molecule in prokaryotes, but roles in eukaryotes were only recently discovered. In the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum, c-di-GMP, produced by a prokaryote-type diguanylate cyclase, induces the differentiation of stalk cells, thereby enabling the formation of spore- bearing fruiting bodies. In this review, we summarize the currently known mechanisms that control the major life cycle transitions of Dictyostelium and focus particularly on the role of c-di-GMP in stalk formation. Stalk cell differentiation has characteristics of autophagic cell death, a process that also occurs in higher eukaryotes. We discuss the respective roles of c-di-GMP and of another signal molecule, DIF, in autophagic cell death in vitro and in stalk formation in vivo.

Chen, Y. Y., et al. (2015). "Mycobacterium marinum mmar_2318 and mmar_2319 are Responsible for Lipooligosaccharide Biosynthesis and Virulence Toward Dictyostelium." Front Microbiol 6: 1458.
	Resistance to phagocyte killing is an important virulence factor in mycobacteria. Dictyostelium has been used to study the interaction between phagocytes and bacteria, given its similarity to the mammalian macrophage. Here, we investigated the genes responsible for virulence to Dictyostelium by screening 1728 transposon mutants of the Mycobacterium marinum NTUH-M6094 strain. A total of 30 mutants that permissive for Dictyostelium growth were identified. These mutants revealed interruptions in 20 distinct loci. Of the 20 loci, six genes (losA, mmar_2318, mmar_2319, wecE, mmar_2323 and mmar_2353) were located in the lipooligosaccharide (LOS) synthesis cluster. LOS are antigenic glycolipids and the core LOS structure from LOS-I to LOS-IV have been reported to exist in M. marinum. Two-dimensional thin-layer chromatography (2D-TLC) glycolipid profiles revealed that deletion of mmar_2318 or mmar_2319 resulted in the accumulation of LOS-III and deficiency of LOS-IV. Deletion and complementation of mmar_2318 or mmar_2319 confirmed that these genes both contributed to virulence toward Dictyostelium but not entry and replication inside Dictyostelium. Co-incubation with a murine macrophage cell line J774a.1 or PMA-induced human monocytic cell line THP-1 demonstrated that mmar_2318 or mmar_2319 deletion mutant could grow in macrophages, and their initial entry rate was not affected in J774a.1 but significantly increased in THP-1. In conclusion, although mmar_2319 has been reported to involve LOS biosynthesis in a previous study, we identified a new gene, mmar_2318 that is also involved in the biosynthesis of LOS. Deletion of mmar_2318 or mmar_2319 both exhibits reduction of virulence toward Dictyostelium and increased entry into THP-1 cells.

Chasapis, C. T., et al. (2015). "(1)H, (13)C and (15)N backbone and side-chain resonance assignment of the LAM-RRM1 N-terminal module of La protein from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biomol NMR Assign 9(2): 303-307.
	The N-terminal half of La protein consists of two concatenated motifs: La motif (LAM) and the N-terminal RNA recognition motif (RRM1) both of which are responsible for poly(U) RNA binding. Here, we present the backbone and side-chain assignments of the (1)H, (13)C and (15)N resonances of the 191-residue LAM-RRM1 region of the La protein from the lower eukaryote Dictyostelium discoideum and its secondary structure prediction.

Catalano, A. and D. H. O'Day (2015). "Evidence for nucleolar subcompartments in Dictyostelium." Biochem Biophys Res Commun 456(4): 901-907.
	The nucleolus is a multifunctional nuclear compartment usually consisting of two to three subcompartments which represent stages of ribosomal biogenesis. It is linked to several human diseases including viral infections, cancer, and neurodegeneration. Dictyostelium is a model eukaryote for the study of fundamental biological processes as well as several human diseases however comparatively little is known about its nucleolus. Unlike most nucleoli it does not possess visible subcompartments at the ultrastructural level. Several recently identified nucleolar proteins in Dictyostelium leave the nucleolus after treatment with the rDNA transcription inhibitor actinomycin-D (AM-D). Different proteins exit in different ways, suggesting that previously unidentified nucleolar subcompartments may exist. The identification of nucleolar subcompartments would help to better understand the nucleolus in this model eukaryote. Here, we show that Dictyostelium nucleolar proteins nucleomorphin isoform NumA1 and Bud31 localize throughout the entire nucleolus while calcium-binding protein 4a localizes to only a portion, representing nucleolar subcompartment 1 (NoSC1). SWI/SNF complex member Snf12 localizes to a smaller area within NoSC1 representing a second nucleolar subcompartment, NoSC2. The nuclear/nucleolar localization signal KRKR from Snf12 localized GFP to NoSC2, and thus also appears to function as a nucleolar subcompartment localization signal. FhkA localizes to the nucleolar periphery displaying a similar pattern to that of Hsp32. Similarities between the redistribution patterns of Dictyostelium nucleolar proteins during nucleolar disruption as a result of either AM-D treatment or mitosis support these subcompartments. A model for the AM-D-induced redistribution patterns is proposed.

Buracco, S., et al. (2015). "Dictyostelium Nramp1, which is structurally and functionally similar to mammalian DMT1 transporter, mediates phagosomal iron efflux." J Cell Sci 128(17): 3304-3316.
	The Nramp (Slc11) protein family is widespread in bacteria and eukaryotes, and mediates transport of divalent metals across cellular membranes. The social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum has two Nramp proteins. Nramp1, like its mammalian ortholog (SLC11A1), is recruited to phagosomal and macropinosomal membranes, and confers resistance to pathogenic bacteria. Nramp2 is located exclusively in the contractile vacuole membrane and controls, synergistically with Nramp1, iron homeostasis. It has long been debated whether mammalian Nramp1 mediates iron import or export from phagosomes. By selectively loading the iron-chelating fluorochrome calcein in macropinosomes, we show that Dictyostelium Nramp1 mediates iron efflux from macropinosomes in vivo. To gain insight in ion selectivity and the transport mechanism, the proteins were expressed in Xenopus oocytes. Using a novel assay with calcein, and electrophysiological and radiochemical assays, we show that Nramp1, similar to rat DMT1 (also known as SLC11A2), transports Fe(2+) and manganese, not Fe(3+) or copper. Metal ion transport is electrogenic and proton dependent. By contrast, Nramp2 transports only Fe(2+) in a non-electrogenic and proton-independent way. These differences reflect evolutionary divergence of the prototypical Nramp2 protein sequence compared to the archetypical Nramp1 and DMT1 proteins.

Bloomfield, G., et al. (2015). "Neurofibromin controls macropinocytosis and phagocytosis in Dictyostelium." Elife 4.
	Cells use phagocytosis and macropinocytosis to internalise bulk material, which in phagotrophic organisms supplies the nutrients necessary for growth. Wildtype Dictyostelium amoebae feed on bacteria, but for decades laboratory work has relied on axenic mutants that can also grow on liquid media. We used forward genetics to identify the causative gene underlying this phenotype. This gene encodes the RasGAP Neurofibromin (NF1). Loss of NF1 enables axenic growth by increasing fluid uptake. Mutants form outsized macropinosomes which are promoted by greater Ras and PI3K activity at sites of endocytosis. Relatedly, NF1 mutants can ingest larger-than-normal particles using phagocytosis. An NF1 reporter is recruited to nascent macropinosomes, suggesting that NF1 limits their size by locally inhibiting Ras signalling. Our results link NF1 with macropinocytosis and phagocytosis for the first time, and we propose that NF1 evolved in early phagotrophs to spatially modulate Ras activity, thereby constraining and shaping their feeding structures.

Binder, B. P., et al. (2015). "High-resolution helix orientation in actin-bound myosin determined with a bifunctional spin label." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 112(26): 7972-7977.
	Using electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) of a bifunctional spin label (BSL) bound stereospecifically to Dictyostelium myosin II, we determined with high resolution the orientation of individual structural elements in the catalytic domain while myosin is in complex with actin. BSL was attached to a pair of engineered cysteine side chains four residues apart on known alpha-helical segments, within a construct of the myosin catalytic domain that lacks other reactive cysteines. EPR spectra of BSL-myosin bound to actin in oriented muscle fibers showed sharp three-line spectra, indicating a well-defined orientation relative to the actin filament axis. Spectral analysis indicated that orientation of the spin label can be determined within <2.1 degrees accuracy, and comparison with existing structural data in the absence of nucleotide indicates that helix orientation can also be determined with <4.2 degrees accuracy. We used this approach to examine the crucial ADP release step in myosin's catalytic cycle and detected reversible rotations of two helices in actin-bound myosin in response to ADP binding and dissociation. One of these rotations has not been observed in myosin-only crystal structures.

Basu, S., et al. (2015). "dictyBase 2015: Expanding data and annotations in a new software environment." Genesis 53(8): 523-534.
	dictyBase is the model organism database for the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum and related species. The primary mission of dictyBase is to provide the biomedical research community with well-integrated high quality data, and tools that enable original research. Data presented at dictyBase is obtained from sequencing centers, groups performing high throughput experiments such as large-scale mutagenesis studies, and RNAseq data, as well as a growing number of manually added functional gene annotations from the published literature, including Gene Ontology, strain, and phenotype annotations. Through the Dicty Stock Center we provide the community with an impressive amount of annotated strains and plasmids. Recently, dictyBase accomplished a major overhaul to adapt an outdated infrastructure to the current technological advances, thus facilitating the implementation of innovative tools and comparative genomics. It also provides new strategies for high quality annotations that enable bench researchers to benefit from the rapidly increasing volume of available data. dictyBase is highly responsive to its users needs, building a successful relationship that capitalizes on the vast efforts of the Dictyostelium research community. dictyBase has become the trusted data resource for Dictyostelium investigators, other investigators or organizations seeking information about Dictyostelium, as well as educators who use this model system.

Barisch, C., et al. (2015). "Lipid droplet dynamics at early stages of Mycobacterium marinum infection in Dictyostelium." Cell Microbiol 17(9): 1332-1349.
	Lipid droplets exist in virtually every cell type, ranging not only from mammals to plants, but also to eukaryotic and prokaryotic unicellular organisms such as Dictyostelium and bacteria. They serve among other roles as energy reservoir that cells consume in times of starvation. Mycobacteria and some other intracellular pathogens hijack these organelles as a nutrient source and to build up their own lipid inclusions. The mechanisms by which host lipid droplets are captured by the pathogenic bacteria are extremely poorly understood. Using the powerful Dictyostelium discoideum/Mycobacterium marinum infection model, we observed that, immediately after their uptake, lipid droplets translocate to the vicinity of the vacuole containing live but not dead mycobacteria. Induction of lipid droplets in Dictyostelium prior to infection resulted in a vast accumulation of neutral lipids and sterols inside the bacterium-containing compartment. Subsequently, under these conditions, mycobacteria accumulated much larger lipid inclusions. Strikingly, the Dictyostelium homologue of perilipin and the murine perilipin 2 surrounded bacteria that had escaped to the cytosol of Dictyostelium or microglial BV-2 cells respectively. Moreover, bacterial growth was inhibited in Dictyostelium plnA knockout cells. In summary, our results provide evidence that mycobacteria actively manipulate the lipid metabolism of the host from very early infection stages.

Barisch, C., et al. (2015). "Live imaging of Mycobacterium marinum infection in Dictyostelium discoideum." Methods Mol Biol 1285: 369-385.
	The Dictyostelium discoideum-Mycobacterium marinum host-pathogen system is a recently established and powerful model system for mycobacterial infection. In this chapter, two simple protocols for live imaging of Dictyostelium discoideum infection are described. The first method is used to monitor the dynamics of recruitment of GFP-tagged Dictyostelium discoideum proteins at single time-points corresponding to the main stages of the infection (1.5-72 h post infection). The second method focuses at the early stages of the establishment of an infection (0-3 h post infection). In addition, several procedures to improve the imaging of the bacterium-containing compartment are described. Basic bacterial parameters such as bacterial growth and the recruitment of host proteins to the bacterium-containing compartment can be easily and precisely quantified using macros for ImageJ. These methods can be adapted to monitoring mycobacteria infection in other systems using mammalian cells.

Argyriou, A. I., et al. (2015). "Backbone and side chain NMR assignment, along with the secondary structure prediction of RRM2 domain of La protein from a lower eukaryote exhibiting identical structural organization with its human homolog." Biomol NMR Assign 9(1): 219-222.
	The La protein (Lupus antigen), a key mediator during biogenesis of RNA polymerase III transcripts, contains a characteristic La motif and one or two RNA recognition motif (RRM) domains, depending on the organism of origin. The RRM1 domain is conserved in higher eukaryotes and located in the N-terminal region, whereas the C-terminal RRM2 domain is absent in most lower eukaryotes and its specific role remains, so far, uncharacterized. Here, we present the backbone and side-chain assignment of the (1)H, (13)C and (15)N resonances of RRM2 of La protein from Dictyostelium discoideum. Interestingly, the La protein in this lower eukaryote, exhibits high homology to its human counterpart. Moreover, it contains two RRM domains, instead of one, raising questions on its evolutionary origin and the putative role of RRM2 in vivo. We also provide its secondary structure as predicted by the TALOS+ online tool.

Amaroli, A. (2015). "The Effects of Temperature Variation on the Sensitivity to Pesticides: a Study on the Slime Mould Dictyostelium discoideum (Protozoa)." Microb Ecol 70(1): 244-254.
	Slime moulds live in agricultural ecosystems, where they play an important role in the soil fertilization and in the battle against crop pathogens. In an agricultural soil, the amoebae are exposed to different stress factors such as pesticides and weather conditions. The use of pesticides increased up from 0.49 kg per hectare in 1961 to 2 kg in 2004, and the global greenhouse gas emission has grown 70% between 1970 and 2004 leading to a global fluctuation of average surface temperature. Therefore, the European Directive 2009/128/EC has led to a new approach to agriculture, with the transition from an old concept based on high use of pesticides and fossil fuels to an agriculture aware of biodiversity and health issues. We studied the effects of temperature variations and pesticides on Dictyostelium discoideum. We measured the fission rate, the ability to differentiate and the markers of stress such as the activity and presence of pseudocholinesterase and the presence of heat shock protein 70. Our results highlight how the sensitivity to zinc, aluminium, silver, copper, cadmium, mercury, diazinon and dicofol changes for a 2 degrees C variation from nothing/low to critical. Our work suggests considering, in future regulations, about the use of pesticides as their toxic effect on non-target organisms is strongly influenced by climate temperatures. In addition, there is a need for a new consideration of the protozoa, which takes into account recent researches about the presence in this microorganism of classical neurotransmitters that, similar to those in animals, make protozoa an innocent target of neurotoxic pesticides in the battle against the pest crops.

Alvarez-Gonzalez, B., et al. (2015). "Three-dimensional balance of cortical tension and axial contractility enables fast amoeboid migration." Biophys J 108(4): 821-832.
	Fast amoeboid migration requires cells to apply mechanical forces on their surroundings via transient adhesions. However, the role these forces play in controlling cell migration speed remains largely unknown. We used three-dimensional force microscopy to measure the three-dimensional forces exerted by chemotaxing Dictyostelium cells, and examined wild-type cells as well as mutants with defects in contractility, internal F-actin crosslinking, and cortical integrity. We showed that cells pull on their substrate adhesions using two distinct, yet interconnected mechanisms: axial actomyosin contractility and cortical tension. We found that the migration speed increases when axial contractility overcomes cortical tension to produce the cell shape changes needed for locomotion. We demonstrated that the three-dimensional pulling forces generated by both mechanisms are internally balanced by an increase in cytoplasmic pressure that allows cells to push on their substrate without adhering to it, and which may be relevant for amoeboid migration in complex three-dimensional environments.

Accari, J. and C. Barth (2015). "Transcription and processing of mitochondrial RNA in the human pathogen Acanthamoeba castellanii." Mitochondrion 23: 25-31.
	The size, structure, gene content and organisation of mitochondrial genomes can be highly diverse especially amongst the protists. We investigated the transcription and processing of the mitochondrial genome of the opportunistic pathogen Acanthamoeba castellanii and here we present a detailed transcription map of the 41.6 kb genome that encodes 33 proteins, 16 tRNAs and 2 rRNAs. Northern hybridisation studies identified six major polycistronic transcripts, most of which are co-transcriptionally processed into smaller mono-, di- and tricistronic RNAs. The maturation of the polycistronic transcripts is likely to involve endonucleolytic cleavage where tRNAs serve as processing signals. Reverse transcription polymerase chain reactions across the intervening regions between the six major polycistronic transcripts suggest that these transcripts were once part of an even larger transcript. Our findings indicate that the mitochondrial genome of A. castellanii is transcribed from only one or two promoters, very similar to the mode of transcription in the mitochondria of its close relative Dictyostelium discoideum, where transcription is known to occur from only a single transcription initiation site. Transcription initiation from a minimal number of promoters despite a large genome size may be an emerging trend in the mitochondria of protists.

Zhu, X., et al. (2014). "Persistent cellular motion control and trapping using mechanotactic signaling." PLoS One 9(9): e105406.
	Chemotactic signaling and the associated directed cell migration have been extensively studied owing to their importance in emergent processes of cellular aggregation. In contrast, mechanotactic signaling has been relatively overlooked despite its potential for unique ways to artificially signal cells with the aim to effectively gain control over their motile behavior. The possibility of mimicking cellular mechanotactic signals offers a fascinating novel strategy to achieve targeted cell delivery for in vitro tissue growth if proven to be effective with mammalian cells. Using (i) optimal level of extracellular calcium ([Ca(2+)]ext = 3 mM) we found, (ii) controllable fluid shear stress of low magnitude (sigma < 0.5 Pa), and (iii) the ability to swiftly reverse flow direction (within one second), we are able to successfully signal Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae and trigger migratory responses with heretofore unreported control and precision. Specifically, we are able to systematically determine the mechanical input signal required to achieve any predetermined sequences of steps including straightforward motion, reversal and trapping. The mechanotactic cellular trapping is achieved for the first time and is associated with a stalling frequency of 0.06 ~ 0.1 Hz for a reversing direction mechanostimulus, above which the cells are effectively trapped while maintaining a high level of directional sensing. The value of this frequency is very close to the stalling frequency recently reported for chemotactic cell trapping [Meier B, et al. (2011) Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 108:11417-11422], suggesting that the limiting factor may be the slowness of the internal chemically-based motility apparatus.

Zheng, C., et al. (2014). "NaCS-PDMDAAC immobilized cultivation of recombinant Dictyostelium discoideum for soluble human Fas ligand production." Biotechnol Prog.
	Dictyostelium discoideum is a promising eukaryotic host for the expression of heterologous proteins requiring post-translational modifications. However, the dilute nature of D. discoideum cell culture limits applications for high value proteins production. D. discoideum cells, entrapped in sodium cellulose sulfate/poly-dimethyl-diallyl-ammonium chloride (NaCS-PDMDAAC) capsules were used for biosynthesis of the heterologous protein, soluble human Fas ligand (hFasL). Semi-continuous cultivations with capsules recycling were carried out in shake flasks. Also, a scaled-up cultivation of immobilized D. discoideum for hFasL production in a customized vitreous airlift bioreactor was conducted. The results show that NaCS-PDMDAAC capsules have desirable biophysical properties including biocompatibility with the D. discoideum cells and good mechanical stability throughout the duration of cultivation. A maximum cell density of 2.02 x 107 cells mL-1 (equivalent to a maximum cell density of 2.22 x 108 cells mL-1 in capsules) and a hFasL concentration of 130.40 mug L-1 (equivalent to a hFasL concentration of 1434.40 mug L-1 in capsules) were obtained in shake flask cultivation with capsules recycling. Also, a maximum cell density of 1.72 x 107 cells mL-1 (equivalent to a maximum cell density of 1.89 x 108 cells mL-1 in capsules) and a hFasL concentration of 106.10 mug L-1 (equivalent to a hFasL concentration of 1167.10 mug L-1 in capsules) were obtained after approximately 170 h cultivation in the airlift bioreactor (with a working volume of 200 mL in a 315 mL bioreactor). As the article presents a premier work in the application of NaCS-PDMDAAC immobilized D. discoideum cells for the production of hFasL, more work is required to further optimize the system to generate higher cell densities and hFasL titers for large-scale applications. (c) 2014 American Institute of Chemical Engineers Biotechnol. Prog., 2014.

Zatulovskiy, E., et al. (2014). "Bleb-driven chemotaxis of Dictyostelium cells." J Cell Biol 204(6): 1027-1044.
	Blebs and F-actin-driven pseudopods are alternative ways of extending the leading edge of migrating cells. We show that Dictyostelium cells switch from using predominantly pseudopods to blebs when migrating under agarose overlays of increasing stiffness. Blebs expand faster than pseudopods leaving behind F-actin scars, but are less persistent. Blebbing cells are strongly chemotactic to cyclic-AMP, producing nearly all of their blebs up-gradient. When cells re-orientate to a needle releasing cyclic-AMP, they stereotypically produce first microspikes, then blebs and pseudopods only later. Genetically, blebbing requires myosin-II and increases when actin polymerization or cortical function is impaired. Cyclic-AMP induces transient blebbing independently of much of the known chemotactic signal transduction machinery, but involving PI3-kinase and downstream PH domain proteins, CRAC and PhdA. Impairment of this PI3-kinase pathway results in slow movement under agarose and cells that produce few blebs, though actin polymerization appears unaffected. We propose that mechanical resistance induces bleb-driven movement in Dictyostelium, which is chemotactic and controlled through PI3-kinase.

Yumura, S., et al. (2014). "Myosin II does not contribute to wound repair in Dictyostelium cells." Biol Open 3(10): 966-973.
	Cells are always subjected to mechanical stresses, resulting in wounds of the cell membrane, but cells are able to repair and reseal their wounded membrane. Previous reports have shown that actin and myosin II accumulate around the wound and that the constriction of this purse-string closes the membrane pore. Here, we developed a microsurgical wound assay to assess wound repair in Dictyostelium cells. Fluorescent dye that had been incorporated into the cells leaked out for only 2-3 sec after wounding, and a GFP-derived, fluorescent Ca(2+) sensor showed that intracellular Ca(2+) transiently increased immediately after wounding. In the absence of external Ca(2+), the cell failed to repair itself. During the repair process, actin accumulated at the wounded sites but myosin II did not. The wounds were repaired even in myosin II null cells to a comparable degree as the wild-type cells, suggesting that myosin II does not contribute to wound repair. Thus, the actomyosin purse-string constriction model is not a common mechanism for wound repair in eukaryotic cells, and this discrepancy may arise from the difference in cell size.

Yeung, A. T., et al. (2014). "Requirement of the Pseudomonas aeruginosa CbrA sensor kinase for full virulence in a murine acute lung infection model." Infect Immun 82(3): 1256-1267.
	Pseudomonas aeruginosa is an opportunistic pathogen that is a major cause of respiratory tract and other nosocomial infections. The sensor kinase CbrA is a central regulator of carbon and nitrogen metabolism and in vitro also regulates virulence-related processes in P. aeruginosa. Here, we investigated the role of CbrA in two murine models of infection. In both peritoneal infections in leukopenic mice and lung infection models, the cbrA mutant was less virulent since substantially larger numbers of cbrA mutant bacteria were required to cause the same level of infection as wild-type or complemented bacteria. In contrast, in the chronic rat lung model the cbrA mutant grew and persisted as well as the wild type, indicating that the decrease of in vivo virulence of the cbrA mutant did not result from growth deficiencies on particular carbon substrates observed in vitro. In addition, a mutant in the cognate response regulator CbrB showed no defect in virulence in the peritoneal infection model, ruling out the involvement of certain alterations of virulence properties in the cbrA mutant including defective swarming motility, increased biofilm formation, and cytotoxicity, since these alterations are controlled through CbrB. Further investigations indicated that the mutant was more susceptible to uptake by phagocytes in vitro, resulting in greater overall bacterial killing. Consistent with the virulence defect, it took a smaller number of Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae to kill the cbrA mutant than to kill the wild type. Transcriptional analysis of the cbrA mutant during D. discoideum infection led to the conclusion that CbrA played an important role in the iron metabolism, protection of P. aeruginosa against oxidative stress, and the regulation of certain virulence factors.

Yasui, M., et al. (2014). "PTEN hopping on the cell membrane is regulated via a positively-charged C2 domain." Plant Cell 10(9): e1003817.
	PTEN, a tumor suppressor that is frequently mutated in a wide spectrum of cancers, exerts PI(3,4,5)P3 phosphatase activities that are regulated by its dynamic shuttling between the membrane and cytoplasm. Direct observation of PTEN in the interfacial environment can offer quantitative information about the shuttling dynamics, but remains elusive. Here we show that positively charged residues located in the calpha2 helix of the C2 domain are necessary for the membrane localization of PTEN via stable electrostatic interactions in Dictyostelium discoideum. Single-molecule imaging analyses revealed that PTEN molecules moved distances much larger than expected had they been caused by lateral diffusion, a phenomenon we call "hopping." Our novel single-particle tracking analysis method found that the calpha2 helix aids in regulating the hopping and stable-binding states. The dynamically established membrane localization of PTEN was revealed to be essential for developmental processes and clarified a fundamental regulation mechanism of the protein quantity and activity on the plasma membrane.

Yang, J. M., et al. (2014). "Engineering PTEN function: Membrane association and activity." Methods.
	Many tumors are associated with deficiency of the tumor suppressor, PTEN, a PIP3 phosphatase that turns off PIP3 signaling. The major site of PTEN action is the plasma membrane, where PIP3 is produced by PI3 kinases. However, the mechanism and functional importance of PTEN membrane recruitment are poorly defined. Using the heterologous expression system in which human PTEN is expressed in Dictyostelium discoideum, we defined the molecular mechanisms that regulate the membrane-binding site through inhibitory interactions with the phosphorylated C-terminal tail. In addition, we potentiated mechanisms that mediate PTEN membrane association and engineered an enhanced PTEN with increased tumor suppressor functions. Moreover, we identified a new class of cancer-associated PTEN mutations that are specifically defective in membrane association. In this review, we summarize recent advances in PTEN-membrane interactions and methods useful in addressing PTEN function.

Xue, D. M., et al. (2014). "Analysis of cell cycle shortening and developmental interruption in Dictyostelium discoideum allC RNAi mutants." Genet Mol Res 13(2): 3956-3966.
	Dictyostelium discoideum allC RNAi mutant cells are motile and aggregate together, but do not undergo further morphological development. The relatively quick growth rate of allC RNAi mutants compared to wild-type D. discoideum results in a shortened mutant cell cycle. However, at present, little is known about the mechanism underlying this phenomenon. Here, we used semi-quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), real-time quantitative RT-PCR, two-dimensional gel electrophoresis, and mass spectrometry/mass spectrometry to elucidate the phenomenon. We found significant downregulation of myosin II heavy chain, D. discoideum calcium-dependent cell adhesion molecule-1 (DdCAD-1) mRNA, DdCAD-1 protein, D. discoideum mRNA for 14-3-3 and 14-3-3 protein, and type A von Willebrand factor domain-containing protein mRNA in allC RNAi mutants. The results suggest that downregulation of the myosin II heavy chain could be one of key factors causing the developmental interruption and that downregulation of the 14-3-3 protein and the type A von Willebrand factor domain-containing protein mRNA plays an important role in shortening the cell cycle of allC RNAi mutants.

Xie, T., et al. (2014). "Crystal structure of the gamma-secretase component nicastrin." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 111(37): 13349-13354.
	gamma-Secretase is an intramembrane protease responsible for the generation of amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptides. Aberrant accumulation of Abeta leads to the formation of amyloid plaques in the brain of patients with Alzheimer's disease. Nicastrin is the putative substrate-recruiting component of the gamma-secretase complex. No atomic-resolution structure had been identified on gamma-secretase or any of its four components, hindering mechanistic understanding of gamma-secretase function. Here we report the crystal structure of nicastrin from Dictyostelium purpureum at 1.95-A resolution. The extracellular domain of nicastrin contains a large lobe and a small lobe. The large lobe of nicastrin, thought to be responsible for substrate recognition, associates with the small lobe through a hydrophobic pivot at the center. The putative substrate-binding pocket is shielded from the small lobe by a lid, which blocks substrate entry. These structural features suggest a working model of nicastrin function. Analysis of nicastrin structure provides insights into the assembly and architecture of the gamma-secretase complex.

Winterhoff, M., et al. (2014). "The Diaphanous-related formin dDia1 is required for highly directional phototaxis and formation of properly sized fruiting bodies in Dictyostelium." Eur J Cell Biol 93(5-6): 212-224.
	Diaphanous-related formins (DRFs) act as downstream effectors of Rho family GTPases and drive the formation and elongation of linear actin filaments in various cellular processes. Here we analyzed the DRF dDia1 from Dictyostelium cells. The biochemical characterization of recombinant dDia1-FH1FH2 by bulk polymerization assays and single filament TIRF microscopy revealed that dDia1 is a rather weak nucleator. Addition of any of the three Dictyostelium profilin isoforms, however, markedly accelerated formin-mediated actin filament barbed end elongation in TIRF assays. Interestingly, filament elongation was significantly faster in presence of DdPFN I (profilin I) when compared to the other two isoforms, suggesting selectivity of dDia1 for DdPFN I. Additionally, we frequently observed dissociation of the formin from growing barbed ends. These findings are consistent with dilution-induced depolymerization assays in presence of dDia1-FH1FH2 showing that dDia1 is a weak capper in comparison with heterodimeric capping protein. To study the physiological role of this formin, we created cell lines lacking dDia1 or overexpressing GFP-tagged dDia1. Of note, constitutively active dDia1 accumulated homogenously in the entire pseudopod suggesting that it controls microfilament architecture to regulate cell migration. Comparison of wild type and dDia1-null cells in random cell migration and chemotaxis toward a cAMP gradient revealed no major differences. By contrast, phototaxis of dDia1-deficient cells during the multicellular stage was markedly impaired. While wild type slugs moved with high directionality toward the light source, the trails of dDia1-null slugs displayed a characteristic V-shaped profile and deviated in angles between 50 degrees and 60 degrees from the path of the incident light. Possibly in conjunction with this defect, dDia1-null cells also formed substantially smaller fruiting bodies. These findings demonstrate dDia1 to be critically involved in collective cell migration during terminal differentiation.

Wiegand, S., et al. (2014). "The Dictyostelium discoideum RNA-dependent RNA polymerase RrpC silences the centromeric retrotransposon DIRS-1 post-transcriptionally and is required for the spreading of RNA silencing signals." Nucleic Acids Res 42(5): 3330-3345.
	Dictyostelium intermediate repeat sequence 1 (DIRS-1) is the founding member of a poorly characterized class of retrotransposable elements that contain inverse long terminal repeats and tyrosine recombinase instead of DDE-type integrase enzymes. In Dictyostelium discoideum, DIRS-1 forms clusters that adopt the function of centromeres, rendering tight retrotransposition control critical to maintaining chromosome integrity. We report that in deletion strains of the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase RrpC, full-length and shorter DIRS-1 messenger RNAs are strongly enriched. Shorter versions of a hitherto unknown long non-coding RNA in DIRS-1 antisense orientation are also enriched in rrpC- strains. Concurrent with the accumulation of long transcripts, the vast majority of small (21 mer) DIRS-1 RNAs vanish in rrpC- strains. RNASeq reveals an asymmetric distribution of the DIRS-1 small RNAs, both along DIRS-1 and with respect to sense and antisense orientation. We show that RrpC is required for post-transcriptional DIRS-1 silencing and also for spreading of RNA silencing signals. Finally, DIRS-1 mis-regulation in the absence of RrpC leads to retrotransposon mobilization. In summary, our data reveal RrpC as a key player in the silencing of centromeric retrotransposon DIRS-1. RrpC acts at the post-transcriptional level and is involved in spreading of RNA silencing signals, both in the 5' and 3' directions.

Wessels, D., et al. (2014). "Huntingtin regulates Ca(2+) chemotaxis and K(+)-facilitated cAMP chemotaxis, in conjunction with the monovalent cation/H(+) exchanger Nhe1, in a model developmental system: insights into its possible role in Huntingtons disease." Dev Biol 394(1): 24-38.
	Huntingtons disease is a neurodegenerative disorder, attributable to an expanded trinucleotide repeat in the coding region of the human HTT gene, which encodes the protein huntingtin. These mutations lead to huntingtin fragment inclusions in the striatum of the brain. However, the exact function of normal huntingtin and the defect causing the disease remain obscure. Because there are indications that huntingtin plays a role in Ca(2+) homeostasis, we studied the deletion mutant of the HTT ortholog in the model developmental system Dictyostelium discoideum, in which Ca(2+) plays a role in receptor-regulated behavior related to the aggregation process that leads to multicellular morphogenesis. The D. discoideum htt(-)-mutant failed to undergo both K(+)-facilitated chemotaxis in spatial gradients of the major chemoattractant cAMP, and chemotaxis up a spatial gradient of Ca(2+), but behaved normally in Ca(2+)-facilitated cAMP chemotaxis and Ca(2+)-dependent flow-directed motility. This was the same phenotypic profile of the null mutant of Nhel, a monovalent cation/H(+)exchanger. The htt(-)-mutant also failed to orient correctly during natural aggregation, as was the case for the Nhel mutant. Moreover, in a K(+)-based buffer the normal localization of actin was similarly defective in both htt(-) and nhe1(-) cells in a K(+)-based buffer, and the normal localization of Nhe1 was disrupted in the htt(-) mutant. These observations demonstrate that Htt and Nhel play roles in the same specific cation-facilitated behaviors and that Nhel localization is directly or indirectly regulated by Htt. Similar cation-dependent behaviors and a similar relationship between Htt and Nhe1 have not been reported for mammalian neurons and deserves investigation, especially as it may relate to Huntingtons disease.

Weber, S., et al. (2014). "Live-cell imaging of phosphoinositide dynamics and membrane architecture during Legionella infection." MBio 5(1): e00839-00813.
	The causative agent of Legionnaires' disease, Legionella pneumophila, replicates in amoebae and macrophages in a distinct membrane-bound compartment, the Legionella-containing vacuole (LCV). LCV formation is governed by the bacterial Icm/Dot type IV secretion system that translocates ~300 different "effector" proteins into host cells. Some of the translocated effectors anchor to the LCV membrane via phosphoinositide (PI) lipids. Here, we use the soil amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum, producing fluorescent PI probes, to analyze the LCV PI dynamics by live-cell imaging. Upon uptake of wild-type or Icm/Dot-deficient L. pneumophila, PtdIns(3,4,5)P3 transiently accumulated for an average of 40 s on early phagosomes, which acquired PtdIns(3)P within 1 min after uptake. Whereas phagosomes containing DeltaicmT mutant bacteria remained decorated with PtdIns(3)P, more than 80% of wild-type LCVs gradually lost this PI within 2 h. The process was accompanied by a major rearrangement of PtdIns(3)P-positive membranes condensing to the cell center. PtdIns(4)P transiently localized to early phagosomes harboring wild-type or DeltaicmT L. pneumophila and was cleared within minutes after uptake. During the following 2 h, PtdIns(4)P steadily accumulated only on wild-type LCVs, which maintained a discrete PtdIns(4)P identity spatially separated from calnexin-positive endoplasmic reticulum (ER) for at least 8 h. The separation of PtdIns(4)P-positive and ER membranes was even more pronounced for LCVs harboring DeltasidC-sdcA mutant bacteria defective for ER recruitment, without affecting initial bacterial replication in the pathogen vacuole. These findings elucidate the temporal and spatial dynamics of PI lipids implicated in LCV formation and provide insight into host cell membrane and effector protein interactions. IMPORTANCE: The environmental bacterium Legionella pneumophila is the causative agent of Legionnaires' pneumonia. The bacteria form in free-living amoebae and mammalian immune cells a replication-permissive compartment, the Legionella-containing vacuole (LCV). To subvert host cell processes, the bacteria secrete the amazing number of ~300 different proteins into host cells. Some of these proteins bind phosphoinositide (PI) lipids to decorate the LCV. PI lipids are crucial factors involved in host cell membrane dynamics and LCV formation. Using Dictyostelium amoebae producing one or two distinct fluorescent probes, we elucidated the dynamic LCV PI pattern in high temporal and spatial resolution. Notably, the endocytic PI lipid PtdIns(3)P was slowly cleared from LCVs, thus incapacitating the host cell's digestive machinery, while PtdIns(4)P gradually accumulated on the LCV, enabling critical interactions with host organelles. The LCV PI pattern underlies the spatiotemporal configuration of bacterial effector proteins and therefore represents a crucial aspect of LCV formation.

Weber, S., et al. (2014). "A Type IV Translocated Legionella Cysteine Phytase Counteracts Intracellular Growth Restriction by Phytate." J Biol Chem 289(49): 34175-34188.
	The causative agent of Legionnaires' pneumonia, Legionella pneumophila, colonizes diverse environmental niches, including biofilms, plant material, and protozoa. In these habitats, myo-inositol hexakisphosphate (phytate) is prevalent and used as a phosphate storage compound or as a siderophore. L. pneumophila replicates in protozoa and mammalian phagocytes within a unique "Legionella-containing vacuole." The bacteria govern host cell interactions through the Icm/Dot type IV secretion system (T4SS) and approximately 300 different "effector" proteins. Here we characterize a hitherto unrecognized Icm/Dot substrate, LppA, as a phytate phosphatase (phytase). Phytase activity of recombinant LppA required catalytically essential cysteine (Cys(231)) and arginine (Arg(237)) residues. The structure of LppA at 1.4 A resolution revealed a mainly alpha-helical globular protein stabilized by four antiparallel beta-sheets that binds two phosphate moieties. The phosphates localize to a P-loop active site characteristic of dual specificity phosphatases or to a non-catalytic site, respectively. Phytate reversibly abolished growth of L. pneumophila in broth, and growth inhibition was relieved by overproduction of LppA or by metal ion titration. L. pneumophila lacking lppA replicated less efficiently in phytate-loaded Acanthamoeba castellanii or Dictyostelium discoideum, and the intracellular growth defect was complemented by the phytase gene. These findings identify the chelator phytate as an intracellular bacteriostatic component of cell-autonomous host immunity and reveal a T4SS-translocated L. pneumophila phytase that counteracts intracellular bacterial growth restriction by phytate. Thus, bacterial phytases might represent therapeutic targets to combat intracellular pathogens.

Weber, S. and H. Hilbi (2014). "Live cell imaging of phosphoinositide dynamics during Legionella infection." Methods Mol Biol 1197: 153-167.
	The "accidental" pathogen Legionella pneumophila replicates intracellularly in a distinct compartment, the Legionella-containing vacuole (LCV). To form this specific pathogen vacuole, the bacteria translocate via the Icm/Dot type IV secretion system approximately 300 different effector proteins into the host cell. Several of these secreted effectors anchor to the cytoplasmic face of the LCV membrane by binding to phosphoinositide (PI) lipids. L. pneumophila thus largely controls the localization of secreted bacterial effectors and the recruitment of host factors to the LCV through the modulation of the vacuole membrane PI pattern. The LCV PI pattern and its dynamics can be studied in real-time using fluorescently labeled protein probes stably produced by the soil amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum. In this chapter, we describe a protocol to (1) construct and handle amoeba model systems as a tool for observing PIs in live cell imaging, (2) capture rapid changes in membrane PI patterning during uptake events, and (3) observe the dynamics of LCV PIs over the course of a Legionella infection.

Wasnik, V. and R. Mukhopadhyay (2014). "Modeling the dynamics of dendritic actin waves in living cells." Phys Rev E Stat Nonlin Soft Matter Phys 90(5-1): 052707.
	The actin cytoskeleton in living cells exhibits a high degree of capacity for dynamic self-organization. Recent experiments have observed propagating actin waves in Dictyostelium cells recovering from complete depolymerization of their actin cytoskeleton. The propagation of these waves appear to be dependent on a programmed recruitment of a few proteins that control actin assembly and disassembly. Such waves also arise spontaneously along the plasma membrane of the cell, and it has been suggested that actin waves enable the cell to scan a surface for particles to engulf. Based on known molecular components involved in wave propagation, we present and study a minimal reaction-diffusion model for actin wave production observed in recovering cells.

Wang, P. L., et al. (2014). "Circular RNA is expressed across the eukaryotic tree of life." PLoS One 9(6): e90859.
	An unexpectedly large fraction of genes in metazoans (human, mouse, zebrafish, worm, fruit fly) express high levels of circularized RNAs containing canonical exons. Here we report that circular RNA isoforms are found in diverse species whose most recent common ancestor existed more than one billion years ago: fungi (Schizosaccharomyces pombe and Saccharomyces cerevisiae), a plant (Arabidopsis thaliana), and protists (Plasmodium falciparum and Dictyostelium discoideum). For all species studied to date, including those in this report, only a small fraction of the theoretically possible circular RNA isoforms from a given gene are actually observed. Unlike metazoans, Arabidopsis, D. discoideum, P. falciparum, S. cerevisiae, and S. pombe have very short introns ( approximately 100 nucleotides or shorter), yet they still produce circular RNAs. A minority of genes in S. pombe and P. falciparum have documented examples of canonical alternative splicing, making it unlikely that all circular RNAs are by-products of alternative splicing or 'piggyback' on signals used in alternative RNA processing. In S. pombe, the relative abundance of circular to linear transcript isoforms changed in a gene-specific pattern during nitrogen starvation. Circular RNA may be an ancient, conserved feature of eukaryotic gene expression programs.

Wang, C., et al. (2014). "The interplay of cell-cell and cell-substrate adhesion in collective cell migration." J R Soc Interface 11(100): 20140684.
	Collective cell migration often involves notable cell-cell and cell-substrate adhesions and highly coordinated motion of touching cells. We focus on the interplay between cell-substrate adhesion and cell-cell adhesion. We show that the loss of cell-surface contact does not significantly alter the dynamic pattern of protrusions and retractions of fast migrating amoeboid cells (Dictyostelium discoideum), but significantly changes their ability to adhere to other cells. Analysis of the dynamics of cell shapes reveals that cells that are adherent to a surface may coordinate their motion with neighbouring cells through protrusion waves that travel across cell-cell contacts. However, while shape waves exist if cells are detached from surfaces, they do not couple cell to cell. In addition, our investigation of actin polymerization indicates that loss of cell-surface adhesion changes actin polymerization at cell-cell contacts. To further investigate cell-cell/cell-substrate interactions, we used optical micromanipulation to form cell-substrate contact at controlled locations. We find that both cell-shape dynamics and cytoskeletal activity respond rapidly to the formation of cell-substrate contact.

Waheed, A., et al. (2014). "Naringenin inhibits the growth of Dictyostelium and MDCK-derived cysts in a TRPP2 (polycystin-2)-dependent manner." Br J Pharmacol 171(10): 2659-2670.
	BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Identifying and characterizing potential new therapeutic agents to target cell proliferation may provide improved treatments for neoplastic disorders such as cancer and polycystic diseases. EXPERIMENTAL APPROACH: We used the simple, tractable biomedical model Dictyostelium to investigate the molecular mechanism of naringenin, a dietary flavonoid with antiproliferative and chemopreventive actions in vitro and in animal models of carcinogenesis. We then translated these results to a mammalian kidney model, Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK) tubule cells, grown in culture and as cysts in a collagen matrix. KEY RESULTS: Naringenin inhibited Dictyostelium growth, but not development. Screening of a library of random gene knockout mutants identified a mutant lacking TRPP2 (polycystin-2) that was resistant to the effect of naringenin on growth and random cell movement. TRPP2 is a divalent transient receptor potential cation channel, where mutations in the protein give rise to type 2 autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD). Naringenin inhibited MDCK cell growth and inhibited cyst growth. Knockdown of TRPP2 levels by siRNA in this model conferred partial resistance to naringenin such that cysts treated with 3 and 10 muM naringenin were larger following TRPP2 knockdown compared with controls. Naringenin did not affect chloride secretion. CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS: The action of naringenin on cell growth in the phylogenetically diverse systems of Dictyostelium and mammalian kidney cells, suggests a conserved effect mediated by TRPP2 (polycystin-2). Further studies will investigate naringenin as a potential new therapeutic agent in ADPKD.

Vu, L. H., et al. (2014). "Identification of the protein kinases Pyk3 and Phg2 as regulators of the STATc-mediated response to hyperosmolarity." PLoS One 9(2): e90025.
	Cellular adaptation to changes in environmental osmolarity is crucial for cell survival. In Dictyostelium, STATc is a key regulator of the transcriptional response to hyperosmotic stress. Its phosphorylation and consequent activation is controlled by two signaling branches, one cGMP- and the other Ca(2+)-dependent, of which many signaling components have yet to be identified. The STATc stress signalling pathway feeds back on itself by upregulating the expression of STATc and STATc-regulated genes. Based on microarray studies we chose two tyrosine-kinase like proteins, Pyk3 and Phg2, as possible modulators of STATc phosphorylation and generated single and double knock-out mutants to them. Transcriptional regulation of STATc and STATc dependent genes was disturbed in pyk3(-), phg2(-), and pyk3(-)/phg2(-) cells. The absence of Pyk3 and/or Phg2 resulted in diminished or completely abolished increased transcription of STATc dependent genes in response to sorbitol, 8-Br-cGMP and the Ca(2+) liberator BHQ. Also, phospho-STATc levels were significantly reduced in pyk3(-) and phg2(-) cells and even further decreased in pyk3(-)/phg2(-) cells. The reduced phosphorylation was mirrored by a significant delay in nuclear translocation of GFP-STATc. The protein tyrosine phosphatase 3 (PTP3), which dephosphorylates and inhibits STATc, is inhibited by stress-induced phosphorylation on S448 and S747. Use of phosphoserine specific antibodies showed that Phg2 but not Pyk3 is involved in the phosphorylation of PTP3 on S747. In pull-down assays Phg2 and PTP3 interact directly, suggesting that Phg2 phosphorylates PTP3 on S747 in vivo. Phosphorylation of S448 was unchanged in phg2(-) cells. We show that Phg2 and an, as yet unknown, S448 protein kinase are responsible for PTP3 phosphorylation and hence its inhibition, and that Pyk3 is involved in the regulation of STATc by either directly or indirectly activating it. Our results add further complexities to the regulation of STATc, which presumably ensure its optimal activation in response to different environmental cues.

von Bulow, J., et al. (2014). "The amoeboidal Dictyostelium aquaporin AqpB is gated via Tyr216 and aqpB gene deletion affects random cell motility." Biol Cell.
	BACKGROUND INFORMATION:: Regulation of aquaporin water channels (AQPs) mostly occurs on the transcriptional level or by intracellular trafficking. Direct AQP gating is comparatively rare and is described mainly for fungi and plants. Earlier, we identified a gated water specific AQP in Dictyostelium discoideum, AqpB, which is opened by truncation of an extended intracellular loop D (AqpB Delta208-219) RESULTS: : We show that Tyr216 of loop D is a key residue in the gating mechanism possibly involving phosphorylation. Mutation of Tyr216 to aspartate or glutamate initiated water-permeability (Pf = 69 mum s-1 ) to the same extent as AqpB Delta208-219, whereas neither replacement of Tyr216 by a positive arginine (Y216R) nor introduction of a negative charge in a neighboring position (T217D) opened the channel. We overexpressed AqpB wildtype and AqpB Delta208-219 as GFP fusion constructs in Dictyostelium amoebae and found that the truncated, permanently open AqpB yielded cells with reduced capability to cope with hypotonic stress. Genetic deletion of aqpB yielded a strain with significantly reduced speed of random motility (4.5 mum min-1 vs. 6.3 mum min-1 of wildtype cells). Yet, chemotaxis towards folate and cAMP was unaffected. In this context, we identified a second, so-far uncharacterized amoeboidal AQP, AqpD, whose role in directed cell locomotion needs to be established CONCLUSION: : Our data add to the completion of the Dictyostelium model for cell motility and show that knowledge on the expression, permeability properties, and localization of amoeboidal AQPs are crucial for further development of the system. This article is protected by copyright. All rights reserved.

Vinet, A. F., et al. (2014). "Initiation of multicellular differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum is regulated by coronin A." Mol Biol Cell 25(5): 688-701.
	Many biological systems respond to environmental changes by activating intracellular signaling cascades, resulting in an appropriate response. One such system is represented by the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum. When food sources become scarce, these unicellular cells can initiate a cAMP-driven multicellular aggregation program to ensure long-term survival. On starvation, the cells secrete conditioned medium factors that initiate cAMP signal transduction by inducing expression of genes such as cAMP receptors and adenylate cyclase. The mechanisms involved in the activation of the first pulses of cAMP release have been unclear. We here show a crucial role for the evolutionarily conserved protein coronin A in the initiation of the cAMP response. On starvation, coronin A-deficient cells failed to up-regulate the expression of cAMP-regulated genes, thereby failing to initiate development, despite a normal prestarvation response. Of importance, external addition of cAMP to coronin A-deficient cells resulted in normal chemotaxis and aggregate formation, thereby restoring the developmental program and suggesting a functional cAMP relay in the absence of coronin A. These results suggest that coronin A is dispensable for cAMP sensing, chemotaxis, and development per se but is part of a signal transduction cascade essential for system initiation leading to multicellular development in Dictyostelium.

Veltman, D. M., et al. (2014). "PIP(3)-dependent macropinocytosis is incompatible with chemotaxis." J Cell Biol 204(4): 497-505.
	In eukaryotic chemotaxis, the mechanisms connecting external signals to the motile apparatus remain unclear. The role of the lipid phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate (PIP(3)) has been particularly controversial. PIP(3) has many cellular roles, notably in growth control and macropinocytosis as well as cell motility. Here we show that PIP(3) is not only unnecessary for Dictyostelium discoideum to migrate toward folate, but actively inhibits chemotaxis. We find that macropinosomes, but not pseudopods, in growing cells are dependent on PIP(3). PIP(3) patches in these cells show no directional bias, and overall only PIP(3)-free pseudopods orient up-gradient. The pseudopod driver suppressor of cAR mutations (SCAR)/WASP and verprolin homologue (WAVE) is not recruited to the center of PIP(3) patches, just the edges, where it causes macropinosome formation. Wild-type cells, unlike the widely used axenic mutants, show little macropinocytosis and few large PIP(3) patches, but migrate more efficiently toward folate. Tellingly, folate chemotaxis in axenic cells is rescued by knocking out phosphatidylinositide 3-kinases (PI 3-kinases). Thus PIP(3) promotes macropinocytosis and interferes with pseudopod orientation during chemotaxis of growing cells.

Tyson, R. A. and E. Zatulovskiy (2014). "How blebs and pseudopods cooperate during chemotaxis."  111(32): 11703-11708.
	Two motors can drive extension of the leading edge of motile cells: actin polymerization and myosin-driven contraction of the cortex, producing fluid pressure and the formation of blebs. Dictyostelium cells can move with both blebs and actin-driven pseudopods at the same time, and blebs, like pseudopods, can be orientated by chemotactic gradients. Here we ask how bleb sites are selected and how the two forms of projection cooperate. We show that membrane curvature is an important, yet overlooked, factor. Dictyostelium cells were observed moving under agarose, which efficiently induces blebbing, and the dynamics of membrane deformations were analyzed. Blebs preferentially originate from negatively curved regions, generated on the flanks of either extending pseudopods or blebs themselves. This is true of cells at different developmental stages, chemotaxing to either folate or cyclic AMP and moving with both blebs and pseudopods or with blebs only. A physical model of blebbing suggests that detachment of the cell membrane is facilitated in concave areas of the cell, where membrane tension produces an outward directed force, as opposed to pulling inward in convex regions. Our findings assign a role to membrane tension in spatially coupling blebs and pseudopods, thus contributing to clustering protrusions to the cell front.

Tosetti, N., et al. (2014). "Amoebae as a tool to isolate new bacterial species, to discover new virulence factors and to study the host-pathogen interactions." Microb Pathog 77: 125-130.
	Amoebae are unicellular protozoan present worldwide in several environments mainly feeding on bacteria. Some of them, the amoebae-resistant bacteria (ARBs), have evolved mechanisms to survive and replicate inside amoebal species. These mainly include legionella, mycobacteria and Chlamydia-related bacteria. Amoebae can provide a replicative niche, can act as reservoir for bacteria whereas the cystic form can protect the internalized bacteria. Moreover, the amoebae represent a Trojan horse for ARBs to infect animals. The long interaction between amoebae and bacteria has likely selected for bacterial virulence traits leading to the adaptation towards an intracellular lifestyle, and some ARBs have acquired the ability to infect mammals. This review intends to highlight the important uses of amoebae in several fields in microbiology by describing the main tools developed using amoebal cells. First, amoebae such as Acanthamoeba are used to isolate and discover new intracellular bacterial species by two main techniques: the amoebal co-culture and the amoebal enrichment. In the second part, taking Waddlia chondrophila as example, we summarize some important recent applications of amoebae to discover new bacterial virulence factors, in particular thanks to the amoebal plaque assay. Finally, the genetically tractable Dictyostelium discoideum is used as a model organism to study host-pathogen interactions, in particular with the development of several approaches to manipulate its genome that allowed the creation of a wide range of mutated strains largely shared within the Dictyostelium community.

Tian, X., et al. (2014). "A conserved extraordinarily long serine homopolymer in Dictyostelid amoebae." Heredity (Edinb) 112(2): 215-218.
	Eukaryotic protein sequences often contain amino-acid homopolymers that consist of a single amino acid repeated from several to dozens of times. Some of these are functional but others may persist largely because of high expansion rates due to DNA slippage. However, very long homopolymers with over a hundred repeats are very rare. We report an extraordinarily long homopolymer consisting of 306 tandem serine repeats from the single-celled eukaryote Dictyostelium discoideum, which also has a multicellular stage. The gene has a paralog with 132 repeats and orthologs, also with high serine repeat numbers, in various other Dictyostelid species. The conserved gene structure and protein sequences suggest that the homopolymer is functional. The high codon diversity and very poor alignment of serine codons in this gene between species similarly indicate functionality. This is because the serine homopolymer is conserved despite much DNA sequence change. A survey of other very long amino-acid homopolymers in eukaryotes shows that high codon diversity is the rule, suggesting that these too may be functional.

Thompson, M. N., et al. (2014). "Huntingtin Supplies a csaA-Independent Function Essential for EDTA-Resistant Homotypic Cell Adhesion in Dictyostelium discoideum." J Huntingtons Dis 3(3): 261-271.
	BACKGROUND: The CAG triplet repeat expansion mutation in the HTT locus, which results in neurodegeneration in Huntington's disease, elongates a polyglutamine tract in huntingtin, a HEAT/HEAT-like protein that has been highly structurally conserved through evolution. In several organisms, huntingtin is necessary for proper cell-cell adhesion and normal development. OBJECTIVE: Dictyostelium discoideum huntingtin null (htt-) cells display a variety of developmental abnormalities and completely fail to acquire EDTA-resistant homotypic cell adhesion during starvation in suspension culture. METHODS: Here, we have assessed the hypothesis that htt may be a genetic interactor of csaA, a major regulator of EDTA-resistant homotypic cell adhesion in D. discoideum. Immunoblot analysis demonstrated that csaA protein expression is dysregulated in htt- cells. RESULTS: Unexpectedly, csaA overexpression, previously shown to rescue csaA- cell adhesion, failed to rescue the htt- adhesion defect. Thus, while htt was required for proper expression of the csaA protein, csaA overexpression was not sufficient to confer EDTA-resistant adhesion in the context of the htt- genetic background in contrast to parental cells. This implies a novel role for htt in conferring csaA-dependent, EDTA-resistant cell adhesion that warrants further investigation. Calcium supplementation restored both endogenous csaA protein levels and EDTA-resistant adhesion in htt- cells. CONCLUSIONS: Our data suggests the existence of an additional mechanism that overcomes the EDTA-resistant adhesion defect of htt- cells in the early development of D. discoideum.

Thewes, S., et al. (2014). "Stress and development in Dictyostelium discoideum: the involvement of the catalytic calcineurin A subunit." J Basic Microbiol 54(6): 607-613.
	Calcium signaling is one of the most important signaling-pathways in all eukaryotes. One important target activated by an increased intracellular calcium concentration via calmodulin is the protein phosphatase calcineurin, which is composed of a catalytic subunit (calcineurin A) and a regulatory subunit (calcineurin B). The importance of calcium and calcineurin for the differentiation and development of the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum has already been shown by pharmacological approaches. However, so far only a RNAi-silenced calcineurin B mutant has been investigated on a molecular level. Here, we describe the construction and phenotypic investigation of a RNAi-silenced calcineurin A mutant. Phenotypic aberrations during development resemble those produced by silencing of calcineurin B with ectopic tip formation of the fruiting bodies. Additionally, we tested the response of the mutants under various stress conditions in liquid culture as well as during development. Both, calcineurin A and B RNAi-mutants, are hypersensitive during development towards cation stress. Besides its role in development, calcineurin is thus also involved in the stress response in D. discoideum. Further, our data imply that many functions of calcineurin are conserved among the eukaryotes.

Tarantola, M., et al. (2014). "Cell substratum adhesion during early development of Dictyostelium discoideum." PLoS One 9(9): e106574.
	Vegetative and developed amoebae of Dictyostelium discoideum gain traction and move rapidly on a wide range of substrata without forming focal adhesions. We used two independent assays to quantify cell-substrate adhesion in mutants and in wild-type cells as a function of development. Using a microfluidic device that generates a range of hydrodynamic shear stress, we found that substratum adhesion decreases at least 10 fold during the first 6 hr of development of wild type cells. This result was confirmed using a single-cell assay in which cells were attached to the cantilever of an atomic force probe and allowed to adhere to untreated glass surfaces before being retracted. Both of these assays showed that the decrease in substratum adhesion was dependent on the cAMP receptor CAR1 which triggers development. Vegetative cells missing talin as the result of a mutation in talA exhibited slightly reduced adhesive properties compared to vegetative wild-type cells. In sharp contrast to wild-type cells, however, these talA mutant cells did not show further reduction of adhesion during development such that after 5 hr of development they were significantly more adhesive than developed wild type cells. In addition, both assays showed that substrate adhesion was reduced in 0 hr cells when the actin cytoskeleton was disrupted by latrunculin. Consistent with previous observations, substrate adhesion was also reduced in 0 hr cells lacking the membrane proteins SadA or SibA as the result of mutations in sadA or sibA. However, there was no difference in the adhesion properties between wild type AX3 cells and these mutant cells after 6 hr of development, suggesting that neither SibA nor SadA play an essential role in substratum adhesion during aggregation. Our results provide a quantitative framework for further studies of cell substratum adhesion in Dictyostelium.

Tanimoto, H. and M. Sano (2014). "A simple force-motion relation for migrating cells revealed by multipole analysis of traction stress." Biophys J 106(1): 16-25.
	For biophysical understanding of cell motility, the relationship between mechanical force and cell migration must be uncovered, but it remains elusive. Since cells migrate at small scale in dissipative circumstances, the inertia force is negligible and all forces should cancel out. This implies that one must quantify the spatial pattern of the force instead of just the summation to elucidate the force-motion relation. Here, we introduced multipole analysis to quantify the traction stress dynamics of migrating cells. We measured the traction stress of Dictyostelium discoideum cells and investigated the lowest two moments, the force dipole and quadrupole moments, which reflect rotational and front-rear asymmetries of the stress field. We derived a simple force-motion relation in which cells migrate along the force dipole axis with a direction determined by the force quadrupole. Furthermore, as a complementary approach, we also investigated fine structures in the stress field that show front-rear asymmetric kinetics consistent with the multipole analysis. The tight force-motion relation enables us to predict cell migration only from the traction stress patterns.

Tang, M., et al. (2014). "Evolutionarily conserved coupling of adaptive and excitable networks mediates eukaryotic chemotaxis." Nat Commun 5: 5175.
	Numerous models explain how cells sense and migrate towards shallow chemoattractant gradients. Studies show that an excitable signal transduction network acts as a pacemaker that controls the cytoskeleton to drive motility. Here we show that this network is required to link stimuli to actin polymerization and chemotactic motility and we distinguish the various models of chemotaxis. First, signalling activity is suppressed towards the low side in a gradient or following removal of uniform chemoattractant. Second, signalling activities display a rapid shut off and a slower adaptation during which responsiveness to subsequent test stimuli decline. Simulations of various models indicate that these properties require coupled adaptive and excitable networks. Adaptation involves a G-protein-independent inhibitor, as stimulation of cells lacking G-protein function suppresses basal activities. The salient features of the coupled networks were observed for different chemoattractants in Dictyostelium and in human neutrophils, suggesting an evolutionarily conserved mechanism for eukaryotic chemotaxis.

Takaya, Y., et al. (2014). "Alkylbenzoquinone involved in development of cellular slime molds." Org Lett 16(14): 3660-3663.
	The structure of the prespore-cell-promoting factor from Dictyostelium discoideum was determined to be 2-hydroxy-5-methyl-6-pentylbenzoquinone. The synthetic compound has prespore-cell-promoting activity similar to the natural one, with half-maximal induction at a concentration as low as 40 pM. It was also found that the factor induces aggregation in an aggregation-deficient mutant of a related species, Polysphodilium violaceum. Both these activities are sensitive to positional isomerism with the 6-methyl-5-pentyl isomer showing no detectable activity.

Takahashi-Yanaga, F., et al. (2014). "DIF-1 inhibits tumor growth in vivo reducing phosphorylation of GSK-3beta and expressions of cyclin D1 and TCF7L2 in cancer model mice." Biochem Pharmacol 89(3): 340-348.
	We reported that differentiation-inducing factor-1 (DIF-1), synthesized by Dictyostelium discoideum, inhibited proliferation of various tumor cell lines in vitro by suppressing the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway. However, it remained unexplored whether DIF-1 also inhibits tumor growth in vivo. In the present study, therefore, we examined in-vivo effects of DIF-1 using three cancer models: Mutyh-deficient mice with oxidative stress-induced intestinal tumors and nude mice xenografted with the human colon cancer cell line HCT-116 and cervical cancer cell line HeLa. In exploration for an appropriate route of administration, we found that orally administered DIF-1 was absorbed through the digestive tract to elevate its blood concentration to levels enough to suppress tumor cell proliferation. Repeated oral administration of DIF-1 markedly reduced the number and size of intestinal tumors that developed in Mutyh-deficient mice, reducing the phosphorylation level of GSK-3beta Ser(9) and the expression levels of early growth response-1 (Egr-1), transcription factor 7-like 2 (TCF7L2) and cyclin D1. DIF-1 also inhibited the growth of HCT-116- and HeLa-xenograft tumors together with decreasing phosphorylation level of GSK-3beta Ser(9), although it was not statistically significant in HeLa-xenograft tumors. DIF-1 also suppressed the expressions of Egr-1, TCF7L2 and cyclin D1 in HCT-116-xenograft tumors and those of beta-catenin, TCF7L2 and cyclin D1 in HeLa-xenograft tumors. This is the first report to show that DIF-1 inhibits tumor growth in vivo, consistent with its in-vitro action, suggesting that this compound may have potential as a novel anti-tumor agent.

Swer, P. B., et al. (2014). "Analysis of rapamycin induced autophagy in Dictyostelium discoideum." Indian J Exp Biol 52(4): 295-304.
	Natural autophagy and autophagic cell death is being studied in the model system, D. discoideum, which has well known genetic and experimental advantages over the other known systems. There is no apoptotic machinery present in this organism which could interfere with the non-apoptotic cell death. The target of rapamycin (TOR) pathway is a major nutrient-sensing pathway which when inhibited by the drug rapamycin induces autophagy. Rapamycin was originally discovered as an anti-fungal agent but its use was abandoned when it was discovered to have potent immunosuppressive and anti-proliferative properties. It is a known drug used today for various cancer treatments and also for increasing longevity in many model organisms. It has a wide usage but its effects on other pathways or molecules are not known. This model system was used to study the action of rapamycin on autophagy induction. Using the GFP-Atg8, an autophagosome marker, it was shown that rapamycin treatment can induce autophagy by an accumulation of reactive oxygen species and intracellular free calcium. Rapamycin suppresses proliferation by induction of cell cycle arrest in the G1 phase. Taken together, the results suggest that the core machinery for autophagy is conserved in D. discoideum and it can serve as a good model system to delineate the action of rapamycin induced autophagy.

Swer, P. B., et al. (2014). "Analysis of Rheb in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum: cellular localization, spatial expression and overexpression." J Biosci 39(1): 75-84.
	Dictyostelium discoideum encodes a single Rheb protein showing sequence similarity to human homologues of Rheb. The DdRheb protein shares 52 percent identity and 100 percent similarity with the human Rheb1 protein. Fluorescence of Rheb yellow fluorescent protein fusion was detected in the D. discoideum cytoplasm. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and whole-mount in situ hybridization analyses showed that rheb is expressed at all stages of development and in prestalk cells in the multicellular structures developed. When the expression of rheb as a fusion with lacZ was driven under its own promoter, the beta-galactosidase activity was seen in the prestalk cells. D. discoideum overexpressing Rheb shows an increase in the size of the cell. Treatment of the overexpressing Rheb cells with rapamycin confirms its involvement in the TOR signalling pathway.

Swenson, A. M., et al. (2014). "Magnesium modulates actin binding and ADP release in myosin motors." J Biol Chem 289(34): 23977-23991.
	We examined the magnesium dependence of five class II myosins, including fast skeletal muscle myosin, smooth muscle myosin, beta-cardiac myosin (CMIIB), Dictyostelium myosin II (DdMII), and nonmuscle myosin IIA, as well as myosin V. We found that the myosins examined are inhibited in a Mg(2+)-dependent manner (0.3-9.0 mm free Mg(2+)) in both ATPase and motility assays, under conditions in which the ionic strength was held constant. We found that the ADP release rate constant is reduced by Mg(2+) in myosin V, smooth muscle myosin, nonmuscle myosin IIA, CMIIB, and DdMII, although the ADP affinity is fairly insensitive to Mg(2+) in fast skeletal muscle myosin, CMIIB, and DdMII. Single tryptophan probes in the switch I (Trp-239) and switch II (Trp-501) region of DdMII demonstrate these conserved regions of the active site are sensitive to Mg(2+) coordination. Cardiac muscle fiber mechanic studies demonstrate cross-bridge attachment time is increased at higher Mg(2+) concentrations, demonstrating that the ADP release rate constant is slowed by Mg(2+) in the context of an activated muscle fiber. Direct measurements of phosphate release in myosin V demonstrate that Mg(2+) reduces actin affinity in the M.ADP.Pi state, although it does not change the rate of phosphate release. Therefore, the Mg(2+) inhibition of the actin-activated ATPase activity observed in class II myosins is likely the result of Mg(2+)-dependent alterations in actin binding. Overall, our results suggest that Mg(2+) reduces the ADP release rate constant and rate of attachment to actin in both high and low duty ratio myosins.

Swaminathan, K., et al. (2014). "A Cdc42- and Rac-interactive binding (CRIB) domain mediates functions of coronin." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 111(1): E25-33.
	The Cdc42- and Rac-interactive binding motif (CRIB) of coronin binds to Rho GTPases with a preference for GDP-loaded Rac. Mutation of the Cdc42- and Rac-interactive binding motif abrogates Rac binding. This results in increased 1evels of activated Rac in coronin-deficient Dictyostelium cells (corA(-)), which impacts myosin II assembly. corA(-) cells show increased accumulation of myosin II in the cortex of growth-phase cells. Myosin II assembly is regulated by myosin heavy chain kinase-mediated phosphorylation of its tail. Kinase activity depends on the activation state of the p21-activated kinase a. The myosin II defect of corA(-) mutant is alleviated by dominant-negative p21-activated kinase a. It is rescued by wild-type coronin, whereas coronin carrying a mutated Cdc42- and Rac-interactive binding motif failed to rescue the myosin defect in corA(-) mutant cells. Ectopically expressed myosin heavy chain kinases affinity purified from corA(-) cells show reduced kinase activity. We propose that coronin through its affinity for GDP-Rac regulates the availability of GTP-Rac for activation of downstream effectors.

Sumita, K., et al. (2014). "Degradation of activated K-Ras orthologue via K-Ras-specific lysine residues is required for cytokinesis." J Biol Chem 289(7): 3950-3959.
	Mammalian cells encode three closely related Ras proteins, H-Ras, N-Ras, and K-Ras. Oncogenic K-Ras mutations frequently occur in human cancers, which lead to dysregulated cell proliferation and genomic instability. However, mechanistic role of the Ras isoform regulation have remained largely unknown. Furthermore, the dynamics and function of negative regulation of GTP-loaded K-Ras have not been fully investigated. Here, we demonstrate RasG, the Dictyostelium orthologue of K-Ras, is targeted for degradation by polyubiquitination. Both ubiquitination and degradation of RasG were strictly associated with RasG activity. High resolution tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) analysis indicated that RasG ubiquitination occurs at C-terminal lysines equivalent to lysines found in human K-Ras but not in H-Ras and N-Ras homologues. Substitution of these lysine residues with arginines (4KR-RasG) diminished RasG ubiquitination and increased RasG protein stability. Cells expressing 4KR-RasG failed to undergo proper cytokinesis and resulted in multinucleated cells. Ectopically expressed human K-Ras undergoes polyubiquitin-mediated degradation in Dictyostelium, whereas human H-Ras and a Dictyostelium H-Ras homologue (RasC) are refractory to ubiquitination. Our results indicate the existence of GTP-loaded K-Ras orthologue-specific degradation system in Dictyostelium, and further identification of the responsible E3-ligase may provide a novel therapeutic approach against K-Ras-mutated cancers.

Sugden, C., et al. (2014). "The Dictyostelium prestalk inducer Differentiation Inducing Factor-1 (DIF-1) triggers unexpectedly complex global phosphorylation changes." Mol Biol Cell.
	DIF-1 is a polyketide that induces Dictyoselium amoebae to differentiate as prestalk cells. We performed a global quantitative screen for phosphorylation changes that occur within the first minutes after addition of DIF-1 using a triple-label SILAC approach. This revealed a new world of DIF-1 controlled signaling: with changes in components of the MAPK and protein kinase-B signaling pathways, components of the actinomyosin cytoskeletal signaling networks and in a broad range of small GTPases and their regulators. The results also provide evidence that the Ca2+/calmodulin dependent phosphatase calcineurin plays a role in DIF-1 signaling to the DimB prestalk transcription factor. At the global level DIF-1 causes a major shift in the phosphorylation/dephosphorylation equilibrium toward net dephosphorylation. Interestingly, many of the sites that are dephosphorylated in response to DIF-1 are phosphorylated in response to extracellular cAMP signaling. This accords with studies that suggest an antagonism between the two inducers and also with the rapid dephosphorylation of the cAMP receptor that we observe in response to DIF-1 and with the known inhibitory effect of DIF-1 on chemotaxis to cAMP. All MS data are available via ProteomeXchange with identifier PXD001555.

Srinivasan, K., et al. (2014). "Identification of a farnesol analog as a Ras function inhibitor using both an in vivo Ras activation sensor and a phenotypic screening approach." Mol Cell Biochem 387(1-2): 177-186.
	Mutations in Ras isoforms such as K-Ras, N-Ras, and H-Ras contribute to roughly 85, 15, and 1% of human cancers, respectively. Proper membrane targeting of these Ras isoforms, a prerequisite for Ras activity, requires farnesylation or geranylgeranylation at the C-terminal CAAX box. We devised an in vivo screening strategy based on monitoring Ras activation and phenotypic physiological outputs for assaying synthetic Ras function inhibitors (RFI). Ras activity was visualized by the translocation of RBD Raf1 -GFP to activated Ras at the plasma membrane. By using this strategy, we screened one synthetic farnesyl substrate analog (AGOH) along with nine putative inhibitors and found that only m-CN-AGOH inhibited Ras activation. Phenotypic analysis of starving cells could be used to monitor polarization, motility, and the inability of these treated cells to aggregate properly during fruiting body formation. Incorporation of AGOH and m-CN-AGOH to cellular proteins was detected by western blot. These screening assays can be incorporated into a high throughput screening format using Dictyostelium discoideum and automated microscopy to determine effective RFIs. These RFI candidates can then be further tested in mammalian systems.

Song, Y., et al. (2014). "c-di-GMP induction of Dictyostelium cell death requires the polyketide DIF-1." Mol Biol Cell.
	Cell death in the model organism Dictyostelium, as studied in monolayers in vitro, can be induced by the polyketide DIF-1 or by the cyclical dinucleotide c-di-GMP. c-di-GMP, a universal bacterial second messenger, can trigger innate immunity in bacterially-infected animal cells, and is involved in developmental cell death in Dictyostelium. We show here that c-di-GMP was not sufficient to induce cell death in Dictyostelium cell monolayers. Unexpectedly, it also required the DIF-1 polyketide. The latter could be exogenous, as revealed by a telling synergy between c-di-GMP and DIF-1. The required DIF-1 polyketide could also be endogenous, as shown by the inability of c-di-GMP to induce cell death in Dictyostelium HMX44A cells and DH1 cells upon pharmacological or genetic inhibition of DIF-1 biosynthesis. In these cases c-di-GMP-induced cell death was rescued by complementation with exogenous DIF-1. Altogether, these results demonstrated that c-di-GMP could trigger cell death in Dictyostelium only in the presence of the DIF-1 polyketide or its metabolites. This identified another element of control to this cell death and perhaps also to c-di-GMP effects in other situations and organisms.

Smith, J., et al. (2014). "Nonadaptive processes can create the appearance of facultative cheating in microbes." Evolution 68(3): 816-826.
	Adaptations to social life may take the form of facultative cheating, in which organisms cooperate with genetically similar individuals but exploit others. Consistent with this possibility, many strains of social microbes like Myxococcus bacteria and Dictyostelium amoebae have equal fitness in single-genotype social groups but outcompete other strains in mixed-genotype groups. Here we show that these observations are also consistent with an alternative, nonadaptive scenario: kin selection-mutation balance under local competition. Using simple mathematical models, we show that deleterious mutations that reduce competitiveness within social groups (growth rate, e.g.) without affecting group productivity can create fitness effects that are only expressed in the presence of other strains. In Myxococcus, mutations that delay sporulation may strongly reduce developmental competitiveness. Deleterious mutations are expected to accumulate when high levels of kin selection relatedness relax selection within groups. Interestingly, local resource competition can create nonzero "cost" and "benefit" terms in Hamilton's rule even in the absence of any cooperative trait. Our results show how deleterious mutations can play a significant role even in organisms with large populations and highlight the need to test evolutionary causes of social competition among microbes.

Smith, J., et al. (2014). "Fruiting bodies of the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum increase spore transport by Drosophila." BMC Evol Biol 14: 105.
	BACKGROUND: Many microbial phenotypes are the product of cooperative interactions among cells, but their putative fitness benefits are often not well understood. In the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum, unicellular amoebae aggregate when starved and form multicellular fruiting bodies in which stress-resistant spores are held aloft by dead stalk cells. Fruiting bodies are thought to be adaptations for dispersing spores to new feeding sites, but this has not been directly tested. Here we experimentally test whether fruiting bodies increase the rate at which spores are acquired by passing invertebrates. RESULTS: Drosophila melanogaster accumulate spores on their surfaces more quickly when exposed to intact fruiting bodies than when exposed to fruiting bodies physically disrupted to dislodge spore masses from stalks. Flies also ingest and excrete spores that still express a red fluorescent protein marker. CONCLUSIONS: Multicellular fruiting bodies created by D. discoideum increase the likelihood that invertebrates acquire spores that can then be transported to new feeding sites. These results thus support the long-hypothesized dispersal benefits of altruism in a model system for microbial cooperation.

Skoge, M., et al. (2014). "Cellular memory in eukaryotic chemotaxis." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 111(40): 14448-14453.
	Natural chemical gradients to which cells respond chemotactically are often dynamic, with both spatial and temporal components. A primary example is the social amoeba Dictyostelium, which migrates to the source of traveling waves of chemoattractant as part of a self-organized aggregation process. Despite its physiological importance, little is known about how cells migrate directionally in response to traveling waves. The classic back-of-the-wave problem is how cells chemotax toward the wave source, even though the spatial gradient reverses direction in the back of the wave. Here, we address this problem by using microfluidics to expose cells to traveling waves of chemoattractant with varying periods. We find that cells exhibit memory and maintain directed motion toward the wave source in the back of the wave for the natural period of 6 min, but increasingly reverse direction for longer wave periods. Further insights into cellular memory are provided by experiments quantifying cell motion and localization of a directional-sensing marker after rapid gradient switches. The results can be explained by a model that couples adaptive directional sensing to bistable cellular memory. Our study shows how spatiotemporal cues can guide cell migration over large distances.

Sinnar, S. A., et al. (2014). "Capping protein is essential for cell migration in vivo and for filopodial morphology and dynamics." Mol Biol Cell 25(14): 2152-2160.
	Capping protein (CP) binds to barbed ends of growing actin filaments and inhibits elongation. CP is essential for actin-based motility in cell-free systems and in Dictyostelium. Even though CP is believed to be critical for creating the lamellipodial actin structure necessary for protrusion and migration, CP's role in mammalian cell migration has not been directly tested. Moreover, recent studies have suggested that structures besides lamellipodia, including lamella and filopodia, may have unappreciated roles in cell migration. CP has been postulated to be absent from filopodia, and thus its role in filopodial activity has remained unexplored. We report that silencing CP in both cultured mammalian B16F10 cells and in neurons of developing neocortex impaired cell migration. Moreover, we unexpectedly observed that low levels of CP were detectable in the majority of filopodia. CP depletion decreased filopodial length, altered filopodial shape, and reduced filopodial dynamics. Our results support an expansion of the potential roles that CP plays in cell motility by implicating CP in filopodia as well as in lamellipodia, both of which are important for locomotion in many types of migrating cells.

Singh, S. P., et al. (2014). "The thyroxine inactivating gene, type III deiodinase, suppresses multiple signaling centers in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev Biol 396(2): 256-268.
	Thyroxine deiodinases, the enzymes that regulate thyroxine metabolism, are essential for vertebrate growth and development. In the genome of Dictyostelium discoideum, a single intronless gene (dio3) encoding type III thyroxine 5' deiodinase is present. The amino acid sequence of D. discoideum Dio3 shares 37% identity with human T4 deiodinase and is a member of the thioredoxin reductase superfamily. dio3 is expressed throughout growth and development and by generating a knockout of dio3, we have examined the role of thyroxine 5' deiodinase in D. discoideum. dio3(-) had multiple defects that affected growth, timing of development, aggregate size, cell streaming, and cell-type differentiation. A prominent phenotype of dio3(-) was the breaking of late aggregates into small signaling centers, each forming a fruiting body of its own. cAMP levels, its relay, photo- and chemo-taxis were also defective in dio3(-). Quantitative RT-PCR analyses suggested that expression levels of genes encoding adenylyl cyclase A (acaA), cAMP-receptor A (carA) and cAMP-phosphodiesterases were reduced. There was a significant reduction in the expression of CadA and CsaA, which are involved in cell-cell adhesion. The dio3(-) slugs had prestalk identity, with pronounced prestalk marker ecmA expression. Thus, Dio3 seems to have roles in mediating cAMP synthesis/relay, cell-cell adhesion and slug patterning. The phenotype of dio3(-) suggests that Dio3 may prevent the formation of multiple signaling centers during D. discoideum development. This is the first report of a gene involved in thyroxine metabolism that is also involved in growth and development in a lower eukaryote.

Simon, S., et al. (2014). "Icm/Dot-dependent inhibition of phagocyte migration by Legionella is antagonized by a translocated Ran GTPase activator." Cell Microbiol 16(7): 977-992.
	The environmental bacterium Legionella pneumophila causes a severe pneumonia termed Legionnaires' disease. L. pneumophila employs a conserved mechanism to replicate within a specific vacuole in macrophages or protozoa such as the social soil amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum. Pathogen-host interactions depend on the Icm/Dot type IV secretion system (T4SS), which translocates approximately 300 different effector proteins into host cells. Here we analyse the effects of L. pneumophila on migration and chemotaxis of amoebae, macrophages or polymorphonuclear neutrophils (PMN). Using under-agarose assays, L. pneumophila inhibited in a dose- and T4SS-dependent manner the migration of D. discoideum towards folate as well as starvation-induced aggregation of the social amoebae. Similarly, L. pneumophila impaired migration of murine RAW 264.7 macrophages towards the cytokines CCL5 and TNFalpha, or of primary human PMN towards the peptide fMLP respectively. L. pneumophila lacking the T4SS-translocated activator of the small eukaryotic GTPase Ran, Lpg1976/LegG1, hyper-inhibited the migration of D. discoideum, macrophages or PMN. The phenotype was reverted by plasmid-encoded LegG1 to an extent observed for mutant bacteria lacking a functional Icm/Dot T4SS.Similarly, LegG1 promoted random migration of L. pneumophila-infected macrophages and A549 epithelial cells in a Ran-dependent manner, or upon 'microbial microinjection' into HeLa cells by a Yersinia strain lacking endogenous effectors. Single-cell tracking and real-time analysis of L. pneumophila-infected phagocytes revealed that the velocity and directionality of the cells were decreased, and cell motility as well as microtubule dynamics was impaired. Taken together, these findings indicate that the L. pneumophila Ran activator LegG1 and consequent microtubule polymerization are implicated in Icm/Dot-dependent inhibition of phagocyte migration.

Simon, M. and H. Plattner (2014). "Unicellular eukaryotes as models in cell and molecular biology: critical appraisal of their past and future value." Int Rev Cell Mol Biol 309: 141-198.
	Unicellular eukaryotes have been appreciated as model systems for the analysis of crucial questions in cell and molecular biology. This includes Dictyostelium (chemotaxis, amoeboid movement, phagocytosis), Tetrahymena (telomere structure, telomerase function), Paramecium (variant surface antigens, exocytosis, phagocytosis cycle) or both ciliates (ciliary beat regulation, surface pattern formation), Chlamydomonas (flagellar biogenesis and beat), and yeast (S. cerevisiae) for innumerable aspects. Nowadays many problems may be tackled with "higher" eukaryotic/metazoan cells for which full genomic information as well as domain databases, etc., were available long before protozoa. Established molecular tools, commercial antibodies, and established pharmacology are additional advantages available for higher eukaryotic cells. Moreover, an increasing number of inherited genetic disturbances in humans have become elucidated and can serve as new models. Among lower eukaryotes, yeast will remain a standard model because of its peculiarities, including its reduced genome and availability in the haploid form. But do protists still have a future as models? This touches not only the basic understanding of biology but also practical aspects of research, such as fund raising. As we try to scrutinize, due to specific advantages some protozoa should and will remain favorable models for analyzing novel genes or specific aspects of cell structure and function. Outstanding examples are epigenetic phenomena-a field of rising interest.

Sheikh, M. O., et al. (2014). "Glycosylation of Skp1 affects its conformation and promotes binding to a model f-box protein." Biochemistry 53(10): 1657-1669.
	In the social amoeba Dictyostelium, Skp1 is hydroxylated on proline 143 and further modified by three cytosolic glycosyltransferases to yield an O-linked pentasaccharide that contributes to O2 regulation of development. Skp1 is an adapter in the Skp1/cullin1/F-box protein family of E3 ubiquitin ligases that targets specific proteins for polyubiquitination and subsequent proteasomal degradation. To investigate the biochemical consequences of glycosylation, untagged full-length Skp1 and several of its posttranslationally modified isoforms were expressed and purified to near homogeneity using recombinant and in vitro strategies. Interaction studies with the soluble mammalian F-box protein Fbs1/Fbg1/OCP1 revealed preferential binding to the glycosylated isoforms of Skp1. This difference correlated with the increased alpha-helical and decreased beta-sheet content of glycosylated Skp1s based on circular dichroism and increased folding order based on small-angle X-ray scattering. A comparison of the molecular envelopes of fully glycosylated Skp1 and the apoprotein indicated that both isoforms exist as an antiparallel dimer that is more compact and extended in the glycosylated state. Analytical gel filtration and chemical cross-linking studies showed a growing tendency of less modified isoforms to dimerize. Considering that regions of free Skp1 are intrinsically disordered and Skp1 can adopt distinct folds when bound to F-box proteins, we propose that glycosylation, which occurs adjacent to the F-box binding site, influences the spectrum of energetically similar conformations that vary inversely in their propensity to dock with Fbs1 or another Skp1. Glycosylation may thus influence Skp1 function by modulating F-box protein binding in cells.

Shanmugam, R., et al. (2014). "The Dnmt2 RNA methyltransferase homolog of Geobacter sulfurreducens specifically methylates tRNA-Glu." Nucleic Acids Res 42(10): 6487-6496.
	Dnmt2 enzymes are conserved in eukaryotes, where they methylate C38 of tRNA-Asp with high activity. Here, the activity of one of the very few prokaryotic Dnmt2 homologs from Geobacter species (GsDnmt2) was investigated. GsDnmt2 was observed to methylate tRNA-Asp from flies and mice. Unexpectedly, it had only a weak activity toward its matching Geobacter tRNA-Asp, but methylated Geobacter tRNA-Glu with good activity. In agreement with this result, we show that tRNA-Glu is methylated in Geobacter while the methylation is absent in tRNA-Asp. The activities of Dnmt2 enzymes from Homo sapiens, Drosophila melanogaster, Schizosaccharomyces pombe and Dictyostelium discoideum for methylation of the Geobacter tRNA-Asp and tRNA-Glu were determined showing that all these Dnmt2s preferentially methylate tRNA-Asp. Hence, the GsDnmt2 enzyme has a swapped transfer ribonucleic acid (tRNA) specificity. By comparing the different tRNAs, a characteristic sequence pattern was identified in the variable loop of all preferred tRNA substrates. An exchange of two nucleotides in the variable loop of murine tRNA-Asp converted it to the corresponding variable loop of tRNA-Glu and led to a strong reduction of GsDnmt2 activity. Interestingly, the same loss of activity was observed with human DNMT2, indicating that the variable loop functions as a specificity determinant in tRNA recognition of Dnmt2 enzymes.

Segota, I., et al. (2014). "Spontaneous emergence of large-scale cell cycle synchronization in amoeba colonies." Phys Biol 11(3): 036001.
	Unicellular eukaryotic amoebae Dictyostelium discoideum are generally believed to grow in their vegetative state as single cells until starvation, when their collective aspect emerges and they differentiate to form a multicellular slime mold. While major efforts continue to be aimed at their starvation-induced social aspect, our understanding of population dynamics and cell cycle in the vegetative growth phase has remained incomplete. Here we show that cell populations grown on a substrate spontaneously synchronize their cell cycles within several hours. These collective population-wide cell cycle oscillations span millimeter length scales and can be completely suppressed by washing away putative cell-secreted signals, implying signaling by means of a diffusible growth factor or mitogen. These observations give strong evidence for collective proliferation behavior in the vegetative state.

Schwebs, D. J., et al. (2014). "Loss of cAMP-specific phosphodiesterase rescues spore development in G protein mutant in dictyostelium." Cell Signal 26(2): 409-418.
	Cyclic AMP (cAMP) is an important intracellular signaling molecule for many G protein-mediated signaling pathways but the specificity of cAMP signaling in cells with multiple signaling pathways is not well-understood. In Dictyostelium, at least two different G protein signaling pathways, mediated by the Galpha2 and Galpha4 subunits, are involved with cAMP accumulation, spore production, and chemotaxis and the stimulation of these pathways results in the activation of ERK2, a mitogen-activated protein kinase that can down regulate the cAMP-specific phosphodiesterase RegA. The regA gene was disrupted in galpha2(-) and galpha4(-) cells to determine if the absence of this phosphodiesterase rescues the development of these G protein mutants as it does for erk2(-) mutants. There gA(-) mutation had no major effects on developmental morphology but enriched the distribution of the Galpha mutant cells to the prespore/prestalk border in chimeric aggregates. The loss of RegA function had no effect on Galpha4- mediated folate chemotaxis. However, the regA gene disruption in galpha4(-) cells, but not in galpha2(-) cells, resulted in a substantial rescue and acceleration of spore production. This rescue in sporulation required cell autonomous signaling because the precocious sporulation could not be induced through intercellular signaling in chimeric aggregates. However, intercellular signals from regA(-) strains increased the expression of the prestalk gene ecmB and accelerated the vacuolization of stalk cells. Intercellular signaling from the galpha4(-)regA(-) strain did not induce ecmA gene expression indicating cell-type specificity in the promotion of prestalk cell development. regA gene disruption in a Galpha4(HC) (Galpha4 overexpression) strain did not result in precocious sporulation or stalk cell development indicating that elevated Galpha4 subunit expression can mask regA(-) associated phenotypes even when provided with wild-type intercellular signaling. These findings indicate that the Galpha2 and Galpha4-mediated pathways provide different contributions to the development of spores and stalk cells and that the absence of RegA function can bypass some but not all defects in G protein regulated spore development.

Schwebs, D. J. and J. A. Hadwiger (2014). "The Dictyostelium MAPK ERK1 is phosphorylated in a secondary response to early developmental signaling." Cell Signal 27(1): 147-155.
	Previous reports have suggested that the two mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) in Dictyostelium discoideum, ERK1 and ERK2, can be directly activated in response to external cAMP even though these MAPKs play different roles in the developmental life cycle. To better characterize MAPK regulation, the levels of phosphorylated MAPKs were analyzed in response to external signals. Only ERK2 was rapidly phosphorylated in response to the chemoattractants, cAMP and folate. In contrast, the phosphorylation of ERK1 occurred as a secondary or indirect response to these stimuli and this phosphorylation was enhanced by cell-cell interactions, suggesting that other external signals can activate ERK1. The phosphorylation of ERK1 or ERK2 did not require the function of the other MAPK in these responses. Folate stimulation of a chimeric population of erk1- and galpha4- cells revealed that the phosphorylation of ERK1 could be mediated through an intercellular signal other than folate. Loss of ERK1 function suppressed the developmental delay and the deficiency in anterior cell localization associated with galpha5- mutants suggesting that ERK1 function can be down regulated through Galpha5 subunit-mediated signaling. However, no major changes in the phosphorylation of ERK1 were observed in galpha5- cells suggesting that the Galpha5 subunit signaling pathway does not regulate the phosphorylation of ERK1. These findings suggest that the activation of ERK1 occurs as a secondary response to chemoattractants and that other cell-cell signaling mechanisms contribute to this activation. Galpha5 subunit signaling can down regulate ERK1 function to promote prestalk cell development but not through major changes to the level of phosphorylated ERK1.

Schafer, C. M., et al. (2014). "Novel regulation of Skp1 by the Dictyostelium AgtA alpha-galactosyltransferase involves the Skp1-binding activity of its WD40 repeat domain." J Biol Chem 289(13): 9076-9088.
	The role of Skp1 as an adaptor protein that links Cullin-1 to F-box proteins in E3 Skp1/Cullin-1/F-box protein (SCF) ubiquitin ligases is well characterized. In the social amoeba Dictyostelium and probably many other unicellular eukaryotes, Skp1 is modified by a pentasaccharide attached to a hydroxyproline near its C terminus. This modification is important for oxygen-sensing during Dictyostelium development and is mediated by a HIF-alpha type prolyl 4-hydroxylase and five sequentially acting cytoplasmic glycosyltransferase activities. Gene disruption studies show that AgtA, the enzyme responsible for addition of the final two galactose residues, in alpha-linkages to the Skp1 core trisaccharide, is unexpectedly critical for oxygen-dependent terminal development. AgtA possesses a WD40 repeat domain C-terminal to its single catalytic domain and, by use of domain deletions, binding studies, and enzyme assays, we find that the WD40 repeats confer a salt-sensitive second-site binding interaction with Skp1 that mediates novel catalytic activation in addition to simple substrate recognition. In addition, AgtA binds similarly well to precursor isoforms of Skp1 by a salt-sensitive mechanism that competes with binding to an F-box protein and recognition by early modification enzymes, and the effect of binding is diminished when AgtA modifies Skp1. Genetic studies show that loss of AgtA is more severe when an earlier glycosylation step is blocked, and overexpressed AgtA is deleterious if catalytically inactivated. Together, the findings suggest that AgtA mediates non-enzymatic control of unmodified and substrate precursor forms of Skp1 by a binding mechanism that is normally relieved by switch-like activation of its glycosylation function.

Sathe, S., et al. (2014). "Interspecies and intraspecies interactions in social amoebae." J Evol Biol 27(2): 349-362.
	The stable co-existence of individuals of different genotypes and reproductive division of labour within heterogeneous groups are issues of fundamental interest from the viewpoint of evolution. Cellular slime moulds are convenient organisms in which to address both issues. Strains of a species co-occur, as do different species; social groups are often genetically heterogeneous. Intra- and interspecies 1 : 1 mixes of wild isolates of Dictyostelium giganteum and D. purpureum form chimaeric aggregates, following which they segregate to varying extents. Intraspecies aggregates develop in concert and give rise to chimaeric fruiting bodies that usually contain more spores (reproductives) of one component than the other. Reproductive skew and variance in the proportion of reproductives are positively correlated. Interspecies aggregates exhibit almost complete sorting; most spores in a fruiting body come from a single species. Between strains, somatic compatibility correlates weakly with sexual compatibility. It is highest within clones, lower between strains of a species and lowest between strains of different species. Trade-offs among fitness-related traits (between compatible strains), sorting out (between incompatible strains) and avoidance (between species) appear to lie behind coexistence.

Saheb, E., et al. (2014). "Caspase-like proteins: Acanthamoeba castellanii metacaspase and Dictyostelium discoideum paracaspase, what are their functions?" J Biosci 39(5): 909-916.
	Caspases are cysteine proteases that are important regulators of programmed cell death in animals. Two novel relatives to members of the caspase families metacaspases and paracaspase have been discovered. Metacaspase type-1 was identified in Acanthamoeba castellanii, an opportunistic protozoan parasite that causes severe diseases in humans. Paracaspase was found in the non-pathogenic protozoan Dictyostelium discoideum. Since their discovery in Acanthamoeba and Dictyostelium, metacaspases and paracaspases have remained poorly characterized. At present we do not have sufficient data about the molecular function of these caspase-like proteins or their role, if any, in programmed cell death. How these caspase proteins function at the molecular level is an important area of study that will provide insight into their potential for treatment therapies against Acanthamoeba infection and other similar parasitic protozoan. Additionally, finding the molecular functions of these caspase-like proteins will provide information concerning their role in more complex organisms.The aim of this article was to review recent discoveries about metacaspases and paracaspases as regulators of apoptotic and non-apoptotic processes.

Rodriguez-Ruiz, A., et al. (2014). "Toxicity assessment through multiple endpoint bioassays in soils posing environmental risk according to regulatory screening values." Environ Sci Pollut Res Int 21(16): 9689-9708.
	Toxicity profiles of two soils (a brownfield in Legazpi and an abandoned iron mine in Zugaztieta; Basque Country) contaminated with several metals (As, Zn, Pb and Cu in Legazpi; Zn, Pb, Cd and Cu in Zugaztieta) and petroleum hydrocarbons (in Legazpi) were determined using a multi-endpoint bioassay approach. Investigated soils exceeded screening values (SVs) of regulatory policies in force (Basque Country; Europe). Acute and chronic toxicity bioassays were conducted with a selected set of test species (Vibrio fischeri, Dictyostelium discoideum, Lactuca sativa, Raphanus sativus and Eisenia fetida) in combination with chemical analysis of soils and elutriates, as well as with bioaccumulation studies in earthworms. The sensitivity of the test species and the toxicity endpoints varied depending on the soil. It was concluded that whilst Zugaztieta soil showed very little or no toxicity, Legazpi soil was toxic according to almost all the toxicity tests (solid phase Microtox, D. discoideum inhibition of fruiting body formation and developmental cycle solid phase assays, lettuce seed germination and root elongation test, earthworm acute toxicity and reproduction tests, D. discoideum cell viability and replication elutriate assays). Thus, albeit both soils had similar SVs, their ecotoxicological risk, and therefore the need for intervening, was different for each soil as unveiled after toxicity profiling based on multiple endpoint bioassays. Such a toxicity profiling approach is suitable to be applied for scenario-targeted soil risk assessment in those cases where applicable national/regional soil legislation based on SVs demands further toxicity assessment.

Ren, Y., et al. (2014). "Genetic suppression of a phosphomimic myosin II identifies system-level factors that promote myosin II cleavage furrow accumulation." Mol Biol Cell 25(25): 4150-4165.
	How myosin II localizes to the cleavage furrow in Dictyostelium and metazoan cells remains largely unknown despite significant advances in understanding its regulation. We designed a genetic selection using cDNA library suppression of 3xAsp myosin II to identify factors involved in myosin cleavage furrow accumulation. The 3xAsp mutant is deficient in bipolar thick filament assembly, fails to accumulate at the cleavage furrow, cannot rescue myoII-null cytokinesis, and has impaired mechanosensitive accumulation. Eleven genes suppressed this dominant cytokinesis deficiency when 3xAsp was expressed in wild-type cells. 3xAsp myosin II's localization to the cleavage furrow was rescued by constructs encoding rcdBB, mmsdh, RMD1, actin, one novel protein, and a 14-3-3 hairpin. Further characterization showed that RMD1 is required for myosin II cleavage furrow accumulation, acting in parallel with mechanical stress. Analysis of several mutant strains revealed that different thresholds of myosin II activity are required for daughter cell symmetry than for furrow ingression dynamics. Finally, an engineered myosin II with a longer lever arm (2xELC), producing a highly mechanosensitive motor, could also partially suppress the intragenic 3xAsp. Overall, myosin II accumulation is the result of multiple parallel and partially redundant pathways that comprise a cellular contractility control system.

Rajawat, J., et al. (2014). "Proteases involved during oxidative stress-induced poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-mediated cell death in Dictyostelium discoideum." Microbiology 160(Pt 6): 1101-1111.
	Apoptosis involves a cascade of caspase activation leading to the ordered dismantling of critical cell components. However, little is known about the dismantling process in non-apoptotic cell death where caspases are not involved. Dictyostelium discoideum is a good model system to study caspase-independent cell death where experimental accessibility of non-apoptotic cell death is easier and molecular redundancy is reduced compared with other animal models. Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) is one of the key players in cell death. We have previously reported the role of PARP in development and the oxidative stress-induced cell death of D. discoideum. D. discoideum possesses nine PARP genes and does not have a caspase gene, and thus it provides a better model system to dissect the role of PARP in caspase-independent cell death. The current study shows that non-apoptotic cell death in D. discoideum occurs in a programmed fashion where proteases cause mitochondrial membrane potential changes followed by plasma membrane rupture and early loss of plasma membrane integrity. Furthermore, the results suggest that calpains and cathepsin D, which are instrumental in dismantling the cell, act downstream of PARP. Thus, PARP, apoptosis inducing factor, calpains and cathepsin D are the key players in D. discoideum caspase-independent cell death, acting in a sequential manner.

Rai, A., et al. (2014). "Expression, purification and crystallization of a dye-decolourizing peroxidase from Dictyostelium discoideum." Acta Crystallogr F Struct Biol Commun 70(Pt 2): 252-255.
	Dye-decolourizing peroxidases are haem-containing peroxidases with broad substrate specificity. Using H2O2 as an electron acceptor, they efficiently decolourize various dyes that are of industrial and environmental relevance, such as anthraquninone- and azo-based dyes. In this study, the dye-decolourizing peroxidase DdDyP from Dictyostelium discoideum was overexpressed in Escherichia coli strain Rosetta(DE3)pLysS, purified and crystallized using the vapour-diffusion method. A native crystal diffracted to 1.65 A resolution and belonged to space group P4(1)2(1)2, with unit-cell parameters a = b = 141.03, c = 95.56 A, alpha = beta = gamma = 90 degrees . The asymmetric unit contains two molecules.

Priebe, M., et al. (2014). "Scanning X-Ray Nanodiffraction on Dictyostelium discoideum." Biophys J 107(11): 2662-2673.
	We have performed scanning x-ray nanobeam diffraction experiments on single cells of the amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum. Cells have been investigated in 1), freeze-dried, 2), frozen-hydrated (vitrified), and 3), initially alive states. The spatially resolved small-angle x-ray scattering signal shows characteristic streaklike patterns in reciprocal space, which we attribute to fiber bundles of the actomyosin network. From the intensity distributions, an anisotropy parameter can be derived that indicates pronounced local variations within the cell. In addition to nanobeam small-angle x-ray scattering, we have evaluated the x-ray differential phase contrast in view of the projected electron density. Different experimental aspects of the x-ray experiment, sample preparation, and data analysis are discussed. Finally, the x-ray results are correlated with optical microscopy (differential phase contrast and confocal microscopy of mutant strains with fluorescently labeled actin and myosin II), which have been carried out in live and fixed states, including optical microscopy under cryogenic conditions.

Plak, K., et al. (2014). "Rap1-dependent pathways coordinate cytokinesis in Dictyostelium." Mol Biol Cell 25(25): 4195-4204.
	Cytokinesis is the final step of mitosis when a mother cell is separated into two daughter cells. Major cytoskeletal changes are essential for cytokinesis; it is, however, not well understood how the microtubules and actomyosin cytoskeleton are exactly regulated in time and space. In this paper, we show that during the early stages of cytokinesis, in rounded-up Dictyostelium discoideum cells, the small G-protein Rap1 is activated uniformly at the cell cortex. When cells begin to elongate, active Rap1 becomes restricted from the furrow region, where the myosin contractile ring is subsequently formed. In the final stages of cytokinesis, active Rap1 is only present at the cell poles. Mutant cells with decreased Rap1 activation at the poles showed strongly decreased growth rates. Hyperactivation of Rap1 results in severe growth delays and defective spindle formation in adherent cells and cell death in suspension. Furthermore, Rap mutants show aberrant regulation of the actomyosin cytoskeleton, resulting in extended furrow ingression times and asymmetrical cell division. We propose that Rap1 drives cytokinesis progression by coordinating the three major cytoskeletal components: microtubules, actin, and myosin II. Importantly, mutated forms of Rap also affect cytokinesis in other organisms, suggesting a conserved role for Rap in cell division.

Pisani, F., et al. (2014). "Analysis of Dictyostelium discoideum inositol pyrophosphate metabolism by gel electrophoresis." PLoS One 9(1): e85533.
	The social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum was instrumental in the discovery and early characterization of inositol pyrophosphates, a class of molecules possessing highly-energetic pyrophosphate bonds. Inositol pyrophosphates regulate diverse biological processes and are attracting attention due to their ability to control energy metabolism and insulin signalling. However, inositol pyrophosphate research has been hampered by the lack of simple experimental procedures to study them. The recent development of polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE) and simple staining to resolve and detect inositol pyrophosphate species has opened new investigative possibilities. This technology is now commonly applied to study in vitro enzymatic reactions. Here we employ PAGE technology to characterize the D. discoideum inositol pyrophosphate metabolism. Surprisingly, only three major bands are detectable after resolving acidic extract on PAGE. We have demonstrated that these three bands correspond to inositol hexakisphosphate (IP(6) or Phytic acid) and its derivative inositol pyrophosphates, IP(7) and IP(8). Biochemical analyses and genetic evidence were used to establish the genuine inositol phosphate nature of these bands. We also identified IP(9) in D. discoideum cells, a molecule so far detected only from in vitro biochemical reactions. Furthermore, we discovered that this amoeba possesses three different inositol pentakisphosphates (IP(5)) isomers, which are largely metabolised to inositol pyrophosphates. Comparison of PAGE with traditional Sax-HPLC revealed an underestimation of the cellular abundance of inositol pyrophosphates by traditional methods. In fact our study revealed much higher levels of inositol pyrophosphates in D. discoideum in the vegetative state than previously detected. A three-fold increase in IP(8) was observed during development of D. discoideum a value lower that previously reported. Analysis of inositol pyrophosphate metabolism using ip6k null amoeba revealed the absence of developmentally-induced synthesis of inositol pyrophosphates, suggesting that the alternative class of enzyme responsible for pyrophosphate synthesis, PP-IP(5)K, doesn't' play a major role in the IP(8) developmental increase.

Phillips, J. E. and R. H. Gomer (2014). "The p21-activated kinase (PAK) family member PakD is required for chemorepulsion and proliferation inhibition by autocrine signals in Dictyostelium discoideum." PLoS One 9(5): e96633.
	In Dictyostelium discoideum, the secreted proteins AprA and CfaD function as reporters of cell density and regulate cell number by inhibiting proliferation at high cell densities. AprA also functions to disperse groups of cells at high density by acting as a chemorepellent. However, the signal transduction pathways associated with AprA and CfaD are not clear, and little is known about how AprA affects the cytoskeleton to regulate cell movement. We found that the p21-activated kinase (PAK) family member PakD is required for both the proliferation-inhibiting activity of AprA and CfaD and the chemorepellent activity of AprA. Similar to cells lacking AprA or CfaD, cells lacking PakD proliferate to a higher cell density than wild-type cells. Recombinant AprA and CfaD inhibit the proliferation of wild-type cells but not cells lacking PakD. Like AprA and CfaD, PakD affects proliferation but does not significantly affect growth (the accumulation of mass) on a per-nucleus basis. In contrast to wild-type cells, cells lacking PakD are not repelled from a source of AprA, and colonies of cells lacking PakD expand at a slower rate than wild-type cells, indicating that PakD is required for AprA-mediated chemorepulsion. A PakD-GFP fusion protein localizes to an intracellular punctum that is not the nucleus or centrosome, and PakD-GFP is also occasionally observed at the rear cortex of moving cells. Vegetative cells lacking PakD show excessive actin-based filopodia-like structures, suggesting that PakD affects actin dynamics, consistent with previously characterized roles of PAK proteins in actin regulation. Together, our results implicate PakD in AprA/CfaD signaling and show that a PAK protein is required for proper chemorepulsive cell movement in Dictyostelium.

Phillips, J. E. and R. H. Gomer (2014). "Partial genetic suppression of a loss of function mutant of the Neuronal Ceroid Lipofuscinosis-associated protease TPP1 in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dis Model Mech.
	Neuronal Ceroid Lipofuscinosis (NCL) is the most common childhood-onset neurodegenerative disease. NCL is inevitably fatal, and there is no current treatment. Children with NCL show progressive decline in movement, vision, and mental abilities and accumulation of autofluorescent deposits in neurons and other cell types. Late-infantile NCL is caused by mutations in the lysosomal protease tripeptdyl peptidase 1 (TPP1). TPP1 cleaves tripeptides from the N-terminus of proteins in vitro, but little is known about the physiological function of TPP1. TPP1 shows wide conservation in vertebrates but is not found in Drosophila, C. elegans, or S. cerevisiae. Here, we characterize ddTpp1, a TPP1 ortholog present in the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum. Lysates from cells lacking ddTpp1 show reduced but not abolished ability to cleave a TPP1 substrate, suggesting that other Dictyostelium enzymes can perform this cleavage. ddTpp1 and human TPP1 localize to the lysosome in Dictyostelium, indicating conserved function and trafficking. Cells lacking ddTpp1 show precocious multicellular development and a reduced ability to form spores during development. When cultured in autophagy-stimulating conditions, cells lacking ddTpp1 rapidly decrease in size and are less viable than wild-type cells, suggesting that one function of ddTpp1 may be to limit autophagy. Cells lacking ddTpp1 show strongly impaired development in the presence of the lysosome-perturbing drug chloroquine, and this phenotype can be suppressed by a secondary mutation in the gene stpA, which encodes a protein with some similarity to mammalian oxysterol-binding proteins (OSBPs). Together, these results suggest that targeting specific proteins may be a viable way to suppress the effects of loss of TPP1 function.

Pears, C. J. and N. D. Lakin (2014). "Emerging models for DNA repair: Dictyostelium discoideum as a model for nonhomologous end-joining." DNA Repair (Amst) 17: 121-131.
	DNA double strand breaks (DSBs) are a particularly cytotoxic variety of DNA lesion that can be repaired by homologous recombination (HR) or nonhomologous end-joining (NHEJ). HR utilises sequences homologous to the damage DNA template to facilitate repair. In contrast, NHEJ does not require homologous sequences for repair but instead functions by directly re-joining DNA ends. These pathways are critical to resolve DSBs generated intentionally during processes such as meiotic and site-specific recombination. However, they are also utilised to resolve potentially pathological DSBs generated by mutagens and errors during DNA replication. The importance of DSB repair is underscored by the findings that defects in these pathways results in chromosome instability that contributes to a variety of disease states including malignancy. The general principles of NHEJ are conserved in eukaryotes. As such, relatively simple model organisms have been instrumental in identifying components of these pathways and providing a mechanistic understanding of repair that has subsequently been applied to vertebrates. However, certain components of the NHEJ pathway are absent or show limited conservation in the most commonly used invertebrate models exploited to study DNA repair. Recently, however, it has become apparent that vertebrate DNA repair pathway components, including those involved in NHEJ, are unusually conserved in the amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum. Traditionally, this genetically tractable organism has been exploited to study the molecular basis of cell type specification, cell motility and chemotaxis. Here we discuss the use of this organism as an additional model to study DNA repair, with specific reference to NHEJ.

Parkinson, K., et al. (2014). "Calcium-dependent regulation of Rab activation and vesicle fusion by an intracellular P2X ion channel." Nat Cell Biol 16(1): 87-98.
	Rab GTPases play key roles in the delivery, docking and fusion of intracellular vesicles. However, the mechanism by which spatial and temporal regulation of Rab GTPase activity is controlled is poorly understood. Here we describe a mechanism by which localized calcium release through a vesicular ion channel controls Rab GTPase activity. We show that activation of P2XA, an intracellular ion channel localized to the Dictyostelium discoideum contractile vacuole system, results in calcium efflux required for downregulation of Rab11a activity and efficient vacuole fusion. Vacuole fusion and Rab11a downregulation require the activity of CnrF, an EF-hand-containing Rab GAP found in a complex with Rab11a and P2XA. CnrF Rab GAP activity for Rab11a is enhanced by the presence of calcium and the EF-hand domain. These findings suggest that P2XA activation results in vacuolar calcium release, which triggers activation of CnrF Rab GAP activity and subsequent downregulation of Rab11a to allow vacuole fusion.

Ouellet, M. M., et al. (2014). "Pseudomonas aeruginosa isolates from dental unit waterlines can be divided in two distinct groups, including one displaying phenotypes similar to isolates from cystic fibrosis patients." Front Microbiol 5: 802.
	Pseudomonas aeruginosa displays broad genetic diversity, giving it an astonishing capacity to adapt to a variety of environments and to infect a wide range of hosts. While many P. aeruginosa isolates of various origins have been analyzed, isolates from cystic fibrosis (CF) patients have received the most attention. Less is known about the genetic and phenotypic diversity of P. aeruginosa isolates that colonize other environments where flourishing biofilms can be found. In the present study, 29 P. aeruginosa isolates from dental unit waterlines and CF patients were collected and their genetic and phenotypes profiles were compared to determine whether environmental and clinical isolates are related. The isolates were first classified using the random amplified polymorphic DNA method. This made it possible to distribute the isolates into one clinical cluster and two environmental clusters. The isolates in the environmental cluster that were genetically closer to the clinical cluster also displayed phenotypes similar to the clinical isolates. The isolates from the second environmental cluster displayed opposite phenotypes, particularly an increased capacity to form biofilms. The isolates in this cluster were also the only ones harboring genes that encoded specific epimerases involved in the synthesis of lipopolysaccharides, which could explain their increased ability to form biofilms. In conclusion, the isolates from the dental unit waterlines could be distributed into two clusters, with some of the environmental isolates resembled the clinical isolates.

Omosigho, N. N., et al. (2014). "The Dictyostelium discoideum RACK1 orthologue has roles in growth and development." Cell Commun Signal 12: 37.
	BACKGROUND: The receptor for activated C-kinase 1 (RACK1) is a conserved protein belonging to the WD40 repeat family of proteins. It folds into a beta propeller with seven blades which allow interactions with many proteins. Thus it can serve as a scaffolding protein and have roles in several cellular processes. RESULTS: We identified the product of the Dictyostelium discoideum gpbB gene as the Dictyostelium RACK1 homolog. The protein is mainly cytosolic but can also associate with cellular membranes. DdRACK1 binds to phosphoinositides (PIPs) in protein-lipid overlay and liposome-binding assays. The basis of this activity resides in a basic region located in the extended loop between blades 6 and 7 as revealed by mutational analysis. Similar to RACK1 proteins from other organisms DdRACK1 interacts with G protein subunits alpha, beta and gamma as shown by yeast two-hybrid, pulldown, and immunoprecipitation assays. Unlike the Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Cryptococcus neoformans RACK1 proteins it does not appear to take over Gbeta function in D. discoideum as developmental and other defects were not rescued in Gbeta null mutants overexpressing GFP-DdRACK1. Overexpression of GFP-tagged DdRACK1 and a mutant version (DdRACK1mut) which carried a charge-reversal mutation in the basic region in wild type cells led to changes during growth and development. CONCLUSION: DdRACK1 interacts with heterotrimeric G proteins and can through these interactions impact on processes specifically regulated by these proteins.

Okamoto, R., et al. (2014). "Regulation of eukaryotic-like protein kinase activity of DspA from Myxococcus xanthus by autophosphorylation." J Biochem 155(2): 99-106.
	A Myxococcus xanthus DspA contains 12 subdomains characteristic of eukaryotic-like protein kinases but with an atypical sequence, RDxSPHN, in the catalytic loop, different from the consensus motifs observed in Ser/Thr kinases (RDxKxxN) or Tyr kinases (RDx(A/R)A(A/R)N). DspA phosphorylated myelin basic protein (MBP) on Ser and Thr residues. Mutations of the SPHN motif within the catalytic loop to KPHN or KPEN for Ser/Thr kinases, AARN for Tyr kinases and TPHN or TSHN for Dictyostelium Tyr kinases markedly reduced autophosphorylation and kinase activities. Phosphorylation assays, Western blot analysis and mutational analysis revealed that DspA is a dual-specificity kinase that autophosphorylates on two Thr residues (Thr-199 and Thr-201) in the activation loop and two Tyr residues (Tyr-35 and Tyr-111). RD kinases such as DspA are activated by phosphorylation in the activation loop. Replacement of Thr-199 or/and Thr-201 in the DspA activation loop by alanine also almost abolished autophosphorylation and kinase activities. In addition, mutation of either Tyr-35 or Tyr-111 to phenylalanine decreased kinase activities against MBP, and double mutation abolished kinase activity. These results suggested that DspA is activated by dual autophosphorylation of Thr residues in the activation loop, and autophosphorylation on two Tyr residues of DspA are required for high-level kinase activity.

O'Day, D. H. and A. Budniak (2014). "Nucleocytoplasmic protein translocation during mitosis in the social amoebozoan Dictyostelium discoideum." Biol Rev Camb Philos Soc.
	Mitosis is a fundamental and essential life process. It underlies the duplication and survival of all cells and, as a result, all eukaryotic organisms. Since uncontrolled mitosis is a dreaded component of many cancers, a full understanding of the process is critical. Evolution has led to the existence of three types of mitosis: closed, open, and semi-open. The significance of these different mitotic species, how they can lead to a full understanding of the critical events that underlie the asexual duplication of all cells, and how they may generate new insights into controlling unregulated cell division remains to be determined. The eukaryotic microbe Dictyostelium discoideum has proved to be a valuable biomedical model organism. While it appears to utilize closed mitosis, a review of the literature suggests that it possesses a form of mitosis that lies in the middle between truly open and fully closed mitosis-it utilizes a form of semi-open mitosis. Here, the nucleocytoplasmic translocation patterns of the proteins that have been studied during mitosis in the social amoebozoan D. discoideum are detailed followed by a discussion of how some of them provide support for the hypothesis of semi-open mitosis.

Nishikawa, Y., et al. (2014). "Structure of the entire stalk region of the Dynein motor domain." J Mol Biol 426(19): 3232-3245.
	Dyneins are large microtubule-based motor complexes that power a range of cellular processes including the transport of organelles, as well as the beating of cilia and flagella. The motor domain is located within the dynein heavy chain and comprises an N-terminal mechanical linker element, a central ring of six AAA+ modules of which four bind or hydrolyze ATP, and a long stalk extending from the AAA+ring with a microtubule-binding domain (MTBD) at its tip. A crucial mechanism underlying the motile activity of cytoskeletal motor proteins is precise coupling between the ATPase and track-binding activities. In dynein, a stalk region consisting of a long (~15nm) antiparallel coiled coil separates these two activities, which must facilitate communication between them. This communication is mediated by a small degree of helix sliding in the coiled coil. However, no high-resolution structure is available of the entire stalk region including the MTBD. Here, we have reported the structure of the entire stalk region of mouse cytoplasmic dynein in a weak microtubule-binding state, which was determined using X-ray crystallography, and have compared it with the dynein motor domain from Dictyostelium discoideum in a strong microtubule-binding state and with a mouse MTBD with its distal portion of the coiled coil fused to seryl-tRNA synthetase from Thermus thermophilus. Our results strongly support the helix-sliding model based on the complete structure of the dynein stalk with a different form of coiled-coil packing. We also propose a plausible mechanism of helix sliding together with further analysis using molecular dynamics simulations. Our results present the importance of conserved proline residues for an elastic motion of stalk coiled coil and imply the manner of change between high-affinity state and low-affinity state of MTBD.

Nguyen, H. N., et al. (2014). "Engineering ePTEN, an enhanced PTEN with increased tumor suppressor activities." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 111(26): E2684-2693.
	The signaling lipid phosphatidylinositol (3,4,5)-trisphosphate (PIP3) is a key regulator of cell proliferation, survival, and migration and the enzyme that dephosphorylates it, phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN), is an important tumor suppressor. As excess PIP3 signaling is a hallmark of many cancers, its suppression through activation of PTEN is a potential cancer intervention. Using a heterologous expression system in which human PTEN-GFP is expressed in Dictyostelium cells, we identified mutations in the membrane-binding regulatory interface that increase the recruitment of PTEN to the plasma membrane due to enhanced association with PI(4,5)P2. We engineered these into an enhanced PTEN (ePTEN) with approximately eightfold increased ability to suppress PIP3 signaling. Upon expression in human cells, ePTEN decreases PIP3 levels in the plasma membrane; phosphorylation of AKT, a major downstream event in PIP3 signaling; and cell proliferation and migration. Thus, the activation of PTEN can readjust PIP3 signaling and may serve as a feasible target for anticancer therapies.

Nguyen, H. N., et al. (2014). "Mechanism of human PTEN localization revealed by heterologous expression in Dictyostelium." Oncogene 33(50): 5688-5696.
	Phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) is one of the most frequently mutated tumor suppressor genes in cancers. PTEN has a central role in phosphatidylinositol (3,4,5)-trisphosphate (PIP3) signaling and converts PIP3 to phosphatidylinositol (4,5)-bisphosphate at the plasma membrane. Despite its importance, the mechanism that mediates membrane localization of PTEN is poorly understood. Here, we generated a library that contains green fluorescent protein fused to randomly mutated human PTEN and expressed the library in Dictyostelium cells. Using live cell imaging, we identified mutations that enhance the association of PTEN with the plasma membrane. These mutations were located in four separate regions, including the phosphatase catalytic site, the calcium-binding region 3 (CBR3) loop, the Calpha2 loop and the C-terminal tail phosphorylation site. The phosphatase catalytic site, the CBR3 loop and the Calpha2 loop formed the membrane-binding regulatory interface and interacted with the inhibitory phosphorylated C-terminal tail. Furthermore, we showed that membrane recruitment of PTEN is required for PTEN function in cells. Thus, heterologous expression system in Dictyostelium cells provides mechanistic and functional insight into membrane localization of PTEN.

Narita, T. B., et al. (2014). "Role of fatty acid synthase in the development of Dictyostelium discoideum." J Oleo Sci 63(3): 281-289.
	Fatty acids are fundamental cellular components, and provide essential building blocks for membrane biosynthesis. Although the use of gene knockout mutants is a robust method for examining the function of specific cellular metabolic networks, fatty acid synthase knockout mutants are extremely difficult to isolate. In the Dictyostelium discoideum genome, we found two putative fatty acid synthase genes, and we created a knockout mutant for one of them to examine the physiological consequences. In this study, we found that a continuous fatty acid supply was necessary for normal development, and the fatty acid synthase knockout mutant showed severe developmental delay. This developmental defect was corrected in chimeras composed of wild type cells and knockout mutant cells (3:7, respectively). The knockout mutant also showed aberrant expression of fatty acid biosynthesis genes. These results showed that D. discoideum needs correct fatty acid synthesis for normal development.

Narita, T. B., et al. (2014). "The hybrid type polyketide synthase SteelyA is required for cAMP signalling in early Dictyostelium development." PLoS One 9(9): e106634.
	BACKGROUND: In our previous study we found that the expression of stlA showed peaks both in the early and last stages of development and that a product of SteelyA, 4-methyl-5-pentylbenzene-1,3-diol (MPBD), controlled Dictyostelium spore maturation during the latter. In this study we focused on the role of SteelyA in early stage development. PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Our stlA null mutant showed aggregation delay and abnormally small aggregation territories. Chemotaxis analysis revealed defective cAMP chemotaxis in the stlA null mutant. cAMP chemotaxis was restored by MPBD addition during early stage development. Assay for cAMP relay response revealed that the stlA null mutant had lower cAMP accumulation during aggregation, suggesting lower ACA activity than the wild type strain. Exogenous cAMP pulses rescued the aggregation defect of the stlA null strain in the absence of MPBD. Expression analysis of cAMP signalling genes revealed lower expression levels in the stlA null mutant during aggregation. CONCLUSION: Our data indicate a regulatory function by SteelyA on cAMP signalling during aggregation and show that SteelyA is indispensable for full activation of ACA.

Nakajima, A., et al. (2014). "Rectified directional sensing in long-range cell migration." Nat Commun 5: 5367.
	How spatial and temporal information are integrated to determine the direction of cell migration remains poorly understood. Here, by precise microfluidics emulation of dynamic chemoattractant waves, we demonstrate that, in Dictyostelium, directional movement as well as activation of small guanosine triphosphatase Ras at the leading edge is suppressed when the chemoattractant concentration is decreasing over time. This 'rectification' of directional sensing occurs only at an intermediate range of wave speed and does not require phosphoinositide-3-kinase or F-actin. From modelling analysis, we show that rectification arises naturally in a single-layered incoherent feedforward circuit with zero-order ultrasensitivity. The required stimulus time-window predicts ~5 s transient for directional sensing response close to Ras activation and inhibitor diffusion typical for protein in the cytosol. We suggest that the ability of Dictyostelium cells to move only in the wavefront is closely associated with rectification of adaptive response combined with local activation and global inhibition.

Mun, H., et al. (2014). "RapGAP9 regulation of the morphogenesis and development in Dictyostelium." Biochem Biophys Res Commun 446(2): 428-433.
	Recent reports have demonstrated that the importance of Rap1-specific GTPase-activating proteins (GAPs) in the spatial and temporal regulation of Rap1 activity during cell migration and development in Dictyostelium. Here, we identified another putative Rap1 GAP-domain containing protein, showing high sequence homologies with those of human Rap1GAP and Dictyotelium RapGAP3, by bioinformatic search. Loss of RapGAP9 resulted in some defects in morphogenesis and development in Dicytostelium. rapGAP9 null cells were more flattened and spread, and highly multinucleated. Compared to wild-type cells, cells lacking RapGAP9 exhibited increased levels of F-actin and more filopodia. These results suggest that RapGAP9 is involved in the regulation of cytoskeleton reorganization and cytokinesis. rapGAP9 null cells showed a small increase of cell-substratum attachment and slightly lower moving speed and directionality compared to wild-type cells. In addition, the loss of RapGAP9 resulted in an altered morphology of fruiting body with a shorter length of stalk and spore. Identification and characterization of RapGAP9 in this study will provide further insights into the molecular mechanism by which Rap1 regulates cytoskeleton reorganization and morphogenesis in Dictyostelium.

Muller-Taubenberger, A., et al. (2014). "Regulation of a LATS-homolog by Ras GTPases is important for the control of cell division." BMC Cell Biol 15: 25.
	BACKGROUND: Nuclear Dbf-related/large tumor suppressor (NDR/LATS) kinases have been shown recently to control pathways that regulate mitotic exit, cytokinesis, cell growth, morphological changes and apoptosis. LATS kinases are core components of the Hippo signaling cascade and important tumor suppressors controlling cell proliferation and organ size in flies and mammals, and homologs are also present in yeast and Dictyostelium discoideum. Ras proto-oncogens regulate many biological functions, including differentiation, proliferation and apoptosis. Dysfunctions of LATS kinases or Ras GTPases have been implicated in the development of a variety of cancers in humans. RESULTS: In this study we used the model organism Dictyostelium discoideum to analyze the functions of NdrC, a homolog of the mammalian LATS2 protein, and present a novel regulatory mechanism for this kinase. Deletion of the ndrC gene caused impaired cell division and loss of centrosome integrity. A yeast two-hybrid analysis, using activated Ras proteins as bait, revealed NdrC as an interactor and identified its Ras-binding domain. Further in vitro pull-down assays showed that NdrC binds RasG and RasB, and to a lesser extent RasC and Rap1. In cells lacking NdrC, the levels of activated RasB and RasG are up-regulated, suggesting a functional connection between RasB, RasG, and NdrC. CONCLUSIONS: Dictyostelium discoideum NdrC is a LATS2-homologous kinase that is important for the regulation of cell division. NdrC contains a Ras-binding domain and interacts preferentially with RasB and RasG. Changed levels of both, RasB or RasG, have been shown previously to interfere with cell division. Since a defect in cell division is exhibited by NdrC-null cells, RasG-null cells, and cells overexpressing activated RasB, we propose a model for the regulation of cytokinesis by NdrC that involves the antagonistic control by RasB and RasG.

Moshous, D. and J. P. de Villartay (2014). "The expanding spectrum of human coronin 1A deficiency." Curr Allergy Asthma Rep 14(12): 481.
	Since the first discovery of coronin in the amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum, remarkable insights have been gained regarding the structure and function of coronins, highly conserved from yeast to humans. It has been speculated that coronins have evolved from actin-binding molecules in lower eukaryotes to regulators of various cellular processes in mammals. Indeed, coronins are not only involved in cytokinesis, cell motility, and other actin-related processes but they are also implicated in immune homeostasis and calcium-calcineurin signaling. Most strikingly, coronin 1 deficiencies give rise to immune deficiencies in mice and humans that are characterized by severe T lymphocytopenia. Whereas complete absence of coronin 1A is associated with severe combined immunodeficiency in humans, hypomorphic mutations lead to a profound defect in naive T cells, expansion of oligoclonal memory T cells, and exquisite susceptibility to EBV-associated B cell lymphoproliferation. Recent publications show that coronin 1A also plays a role in natural killer cell cytotoxic function and in neurobehavioral processes. It can be expected that future identification of coronin 1A-deficient patients will further extend the phenotypic spectrum thereby increasing our knowledge of this fascinating molecule.

Mohri, K., et al. (2014). "Defects in the synthetic pathway prevent DIF-1 mediated stalk lineage specification cascade in the non-differentiating social amoeba, Acytostelium subglobosum." Biol Open 3(6): 553-560.
	Separation of somatic cells from germ-line cells is a crucial event for multicellular organisms, but how this step was achieved during evolution remains elusive. In Dictyostelium discoideum and many other dictyostelid species, solitary amoebae gather and form a multicellular fruiting body in which germ-line spores and somatic stalk cells differentiate, whereas in Acytostelium subglobosum, acellular stalks form and all aggregated amoebae become spores. In this study, because most D. discoideum genes known to be required for stalk cell differentiation have homologs in A. subglobosum, we inferred functional variations in these genes and examined conservation of the stalk cell specification cascade of D. discoideum mediated by the polyketide differentiation-inducing factor-1 (DIF-1) in A. subglobosum. Through heterologous expression of A. subglobosum orthologs of DIF-1 biosynthesis genes in D. discoideum, we confirmed that two of the three genes were functional equivalents, while DIF-methyltransferase (As-dmtA) involved at the final step of DIF-1 synthesis was not. In fact, DIF-1 activity was undetectable in A. subglobosum lysates and amoebae of this species were not responsive to DIF-1, suggesting a lack of DIF-1 production in this species. On the other hand, the molecular function of an A. subglobosum ortholog of DIF-1 responsive transcription factor was equivalent with that of D. discoideum and inhibition of polyketide synthesis caused developmental arrest in A. subglobosum, which could not be rescued by DIF-1 addition. These results suggest that non-DIF-1 polyketide cascades involving downstream transcription factors are required for fruiting body development of A. subglobosum.

Moen, R. J., et al. (2014). "Redox-sensitive residue in the actin-binding interface of myosin." Biochem Biophys Res Commun 453(3): 345-349.
	We have examined the chemical and functional reversibility of oxidative modification in myosin. Redox regulation has emerged as a crucial modulator of protein function, with particular relevance to aging. We previously identified a single methionine residue in Dictyostelium discoideum (Dicty) myosin II (M394, near the myosin cardiomyopathy loop in the actin-binding interface) that is functionally sensitive to oxidation. We now show that oxidation of M394 is reversible by methionine sulfoxide reductase (Msr), restoring actin-activated ATPase activity. Sequence alignment reveals that M394 of Dicty myosin II is a cysteine residue in all human isoforms of skeletal and cardiac myosin. Using Dicty myosin II as a model for site-specific redox sensitivity of this Cys residue, the M394C mutant can be glutathionylated in vitro, resulting in reversible inhibition of actin-activated ATPase activity, with effects similar to those of methionine oxidation at this site. This work illustrates the potential for myosin to function as a redox sensor in both non-muscle and muscle cells, modulating motility/contractility in response to oxidative stress.

Mills, R. D., et al. (2014). "Prediction of the repeat domain structures and impact of parkinsonism-associated variations on structure and function of all functional domains of leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2)." Hum Mutat 35(4): 395-412.
	Genetic variations of leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) are the major cause of dominantly inherited Parkinson disease (PD). LRRK2 protein contains seven predicted domains: a tandem Ras-like GTPase (ROC) domain and C-terminal of Roc (COR) domain, a protein kinase domain, and four repeat domains. PD-causative variations arise in all domains, suggesting that aberrant functioning of any domain can contribute to neurotoxic mechanisms of LRRK2. Determination of the three-dimensional structure of LRRK2 is one of the best avenues to decipher its neurotoxic mechanism. However, with the exception of the Roc domain, the three-dimensional structures of the functional domains of LRRK2 have yet to be determined. Based on the known three-dimensional structures of repeat domains of other proteins, the tandem Roc-COR domains of the Chlorobium tepidum Rab family protein, and the kinase domain of the Dictyostelium discoideum Roco4 protein, we predicted (1) the motifs essential for protein-protein interactions in all domains, (2) the motifs critical for catalysis and substrate recognition in the tandem Roc-COR and kinase domains, and (3) the effects of some PD-associated missense variations on the neurotoxic action of LRRK2. Results of our analysis provide a conceptual framework for future investigation into the regulation and the neurotoxic mechanism of LRRK2.

Michel, R., et al. (2014). "Article for the "Free-living amoebae Special Issue": Isolation and characterisation of various amoebophagous fungi and evaluation of their prey spectrum." Exp Parasitol 145 Suppl: S131-136.
	This article gives an overview on the isolation and characterisation of endoparasitic fungi invading free-living amoebae (FLA), including the ones forming thalli inside their hosts such as Cochlonema euryblastum and also the predatory fungi which capture amoebae by adhesive hyphae. Acaulopage spp. and Stylopage spp. trap, intrude, and exploit amoebal trophozoites. Previous phylogenetic studies proved Cochlonema to be a member of the Zoopagales. The genetic investigation of Acaulopage tetraceros demonstrated its close relationship to Cochlonema. Co-cultivation of A. tetraceros with a number of FLA revealed a great prey spectrum of this amoebophageous fungus. In addition it was shown that solitary amoebal stages of slime moulds such as Dictyostelium sp. and Physarum sp. are also suited as welcome prey amoebae.

McCann, C. P., et al. (2014). "Dictyostelium cells migrate similarly on surfaces of varying chemical composition." PLoS One 9(2): e87981.
	During cell migration, cell-substrate binding is required for pseudopod anchoring to move the cell forward, yet the interactions with the substrate must be sufficiently weak to allow parts of the cell to de-adhere in a controlled manner during typical protrusion/retraction cycles. Mammalian cells actively control cell-substrate binding and respond to extracellular conditions with localized integrin-containing focal adhesions mediating mechanotransduction. We asked whether mechanotransduction also occurs during non-integrin mediated migration by examining the motion of the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum, which is thought to bind non-specifically to surfaces. We discovered that Dictyostelium cells are able to regulate forces generated by the actomyosin cortex to maintain optimal cell-surface contact area and adhesion on surfaces of various chemical composition and that individual cells migrate with similar speed and contact area on the different surfaces. In contrast, during collective migration, as observed in wound healing and metastasis, the balance between surface forces and protrusive forces is altered. We found that Dictyostelium collective migration dynamics are strongly affected when cells are plated on different surfaces. These results suggest that the presence of cell-cell contacts, which appear as Dictyostelium cells enter development, alter the mechanism cells use to migrate on surfaces of varying composition.

Maringer, K., et al. (2014). "Vesicular Trafficking Defects, Developmental Abnormalities, and Alterations in the Cellular Death Process Occur in Cell Lines that Over-Express Dictyostelium GTPase, Rab2, and Rab2 Mutants." Biology (Basel) 3(3): 514-535.
	Small molecular weight GTPase Rab2 has been shown to be a resident of pre-Golgi intermediates and required for protein transport from the ER to the Golgi complex, however, the function of Rab2 in Dictyostelium has yet to be fully characterized. Using cell lines that over-express DdRab2, as well as cell lines over-expressing constitutively active (CA), and dominant negative (DN) forms of the GTPase, we report a functional role in vesicular transport specifically phagocytosis, and endocytosis. Furthermore, Rab2 like other GTPases cycles between an active GTP-bound and an inactive GDP-bound state. We found that this GTP/GDP cycle for DdRab2 is crucial for normal Dictyostelium development and cell-cell adhesion. Similar to Rab5 and Rab7 in C. elegans, we found that DdRab2 plays a role in programmed cell death, possibly in the phagocytic removal of apoptotic corpses.

Makarava, N., et al. (2014). "Quantifying the degree of persistence in random amoeboid motion based on the Hurst exponent of fractional Brownian motion." Phys Rev E Stat Nonlin Soft Matter Phys 90(4): 042703.
	Amoebae explore their environment in a random way, unless external cues like, e.g., nutrients, bias their motion. Even in the absence of cues, however, experimental cell tracks show some degree of persistence. In this paper, we analyzed individual cell tracks in the framework of a linear mixed effects model, where each track is modeled by a fractional Brownian motion, i.e., a Gaussian process exhibiting a long-term correlation structure superposed on a linear trend. The degree of persistence was quantified by the Hurst exponent of fractional Brownian motion. Our analysis of experimental cell tracks of the amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum showed a persistent movement for the majority of tracks. Employing a sliding window approach, we estimated the variations of the Hurst exponent over time, which allowed us to identify points in time, where the correlation structure was distorted ("outliers"). Coarse graining of track data via down-sampling allowed us to identify the dependence of persistence on the spatial scale. While one would expect the (mode of the) Hurst exponent to be constant on different temporal scales due to the self-similarity property of fractional Brownian motion, we observed a trend towards stronger persistence for the down-sampled cell tracks indicating stronger persistence on larger time scales.

Lusche, D. F., et al. (2014). "PTEN redundancy: overexpressing lpten, a homolog of Dictyostelium discoideum ptenA, the ortholog of human PTEN, rescues all behavioral defects of the mutant ptenA." PLoS One 9(9): e108495.
	Mutations in the tumor suppressor gene PTEN are associated with a significant proportion of human cancers. Because the human genome also contains several homologs of PTEN, we considered the hypothesis that if a homolog, functionally redundant with PTEN, can be overexpressed, it may rescue the defects of a PTEN mutant. We have performed an initial test of this hypothesis in the model system Dictyostelium discoideum, which contains an ortholog of human PTEN, ptenA. Deletion of ptenA results in defects in motility, chemotaxis, aggregation and multicellular morphogenesis. D. discoideum also contains lpten, a newly discovered homolog of ptenA. Overexpressing lpten completely rescues all developmental and behavioral defects of the D. discoideum mutant ptenA-. This hypothesis must now be tested in human cells.

Ludtmann, M. H., et al. (2014). "An ancestral non-proteolytic role for presenilin proteins in multicellular development of the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum." J Cell Sci 127(Pt 7): 1576-1584.
	Mutations in either of two presenilin genes can cause familial Alzheimer's disease. Presenilins have both proteolysis-dependent functions, as components of the gamma-secretase complex, and proteolysis-independent functions in signalling. In this study, we investigate a conserved function of human presenilins in the development of the simple model organism Dictyostelium discoideum. We show that the block in Dictyostelium development caused by the ablation of both Dictyostelium presenilins is rescued by the expression of human presenilin 1, restoring the terminal differentiation of multiple cell types. This developmental role is independent of proteolytic activity, because the mutation of both catalytic aspartates does not affect presenilin ability to rescue development, and the ablation of nicastrin, a gamma-secretase component that is crucial for proteolytic activity, does not block development. The role of presenilins during Dictyostelium development is therefore independent of their proteolytic activity. However, presenilin loss in Dictyostelium results in elevated cyclic AMP (cAMP) levels and enhanced stimulation-induced calcium release, suggesting that presenilins regulate these intracellular signalling pathways. Our data suggest that presenilin proteins perform an ancient non-proteolytic role in regulating intracellular signalling and development, and that Dictyostelium is a useful model for analysing human presenilin function.

Loomis, W. F. (2014). "Cell signaling during development of Dictyostelium." Dev Biol 391(1): 1-16.
	Continuous communication between cells is necessary for development of any multicellular organism and depends on the recognition of secreted signals. A wide range of molecules including proteins, peptides, amino acids, nucleic acids, steroids and polylketides are used as intercellular signals in plants and animals. They are also used for communication in the social ameba Dictyostelium discoideum when the solitary cells aggregate to form multicellular structures. Many of the signals are recognized by surface receptors that are seven-transmembrane proteins coupled to trimeric G proteins, which pass the signal on to components within the cytoplasm. Dictyostelium cells have to judge when sufficient cell density has been reached to warrant transition from growth to differentiation. They have to recognize when exogenous nutrients become limiting, and then synchronously initiate development. A few hours later they signal each other with pulses of cAMP that regulate gene expression as well as direct chemotactic aggregation. They then have to recognize kinship and only continue developing when they are surrounded by close kin. Thereafter, the cells diverge into two specialized cell types, prespore and prestalk cells, that continue to signal each other in complex ways to form well proportioned fruiting bodies. In this way they can proceed through the stages of a dependent sequence in an orderly manner without cells being left out or directed down the wrong path.

Lockley, R., et al. (2014). "Image based validation of dynamical models for cell reorientation." Cytometry A.
	A key feature of directed cell movement is the ability of cells to reorient quickly in response to changes in the direction of an extracellular stimulus. Mathematical models have suggested quite different regulatory mechanisms to explain reorientation, raising the question of how we can validate these models in a rigorous way. In this study, we fit three reaction-diffusion models to experimental data of Dictyostelium amoebae reorienting in response to alternating gradients of mechanical shear flow. The experimental readouts we use to fit are spatio-temporal distributions of a fluorescent reporter for cortical F-actin labeling the cell front. Experiments performed under different conditions are fitted simultaneously to challenge the models with different types of cellular dynamics. Although the model proposed by Otsuji is unable to provide a satisfactory fit, those suggested by Meinhardt and Levchenko fit equally well. Further, we show that reduction of the three-variable Meinhardt model to a two-variable model also provides an excellent fit, but has the advantage of all parameters being uniquely identifiable. Our work demonstrates that model selection and identifiability analysis, commonly applied to temporal dynamics problems in systems biology, can be a powerful tool when extended to spatio-temporal imaging data. (c) 2014 The Authors. Published by Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

Liu, X., et al. (2014). "Biochemical and biological properties of cortexillin III, a component of Dictyostelium DGAP1-cortexillin complexes." Mol Biol Cell 25(13): 2026-2038.
	Cortexillins I-III are members of the alpha-actinin/spectrin subfamily of Dictyostelium calponin homology proteins. Unlike recombinant cortexillins I and II, which form homodimers as well as heterodimers in vitro, we find that recombinant cortexillin III is an unstable monomer but forms more stable heterodimers when coexpressed in Escherichia coli with cortexillin I or II. Expressed cortexillin III also forms heterodimers with both cortexillin I and II in vivo, and the heterodimers complex in vivo with DGAP1, a Dictyostelium GAP protein. Binding of cortexillin III to DGAP1 requires the presence of either cortexillin I or II; that is, cortexillin III binds to DGAP1 only as a heterodimer, and the heterodimers form in vivo in the absence of DGAP1. Expressed cortexillin III colocalizes with cortexillins I and II in the cortex of vegetative amoebae, the leading edge of motile cells, and the cleavage furrow of dividing cells. Colocalization of cortexillin III and F-actin may require the heterodimer/DGAP1 complex. Functionally, cortexillin III may be a negative regulator of cell growth, cytokinesis, pinocytosis, and phagocytosis, as all are enhanced in cortexillin III-null cells.

Linkner, J., et al. (2014). "The inverse BAR domain protein IBARa drives membrane remodeling to control osmoregulation, phagocytosis and cytokinesis." J Cell Sci 127(Pt 6): 1279-1292.
	Here, we analyzed the single inverse Bin/Amphiphysin/Rvs (I-BAR) family member IBARa from Dictyostelium discoideum. The X-ray structure of the N-terminal I-BAR domain solved at 2.2 A resolution revealed an all-alpha-helical structure that self-associates into a 165-A zeppelin-shaped antiparallel dimer. The structural data are consistent with its shape in solution obtained by small-angle X-ray scattering. Cosedimentation, fluorescence anisotropy, and fluorescence and electron microscopy revealed that the I-BAR domain bound preferentially to phosphoinositide-containing vesicles and drove the formation of negatively curved tubules. Immunofluorescence labeling further showed accumulation of endogenous IBARa at the tips of filopodia, the rim of constricting phagocytic cups, in foci connecting dividing cells during the final stage of cytokinesis and most prominently at the osmoregulatory contractile vacuole (CV). Consistently, IBARa-null mutants displayed defects in CV formation and discharge, growth, phagocytosis and mitotic cell division, whereas filopodia formation was not compromised. Of note, IBARa-null mutants were also strongly impaired in cell spreading. Taken together, these data suggest that IBARa constitutes an important regulator of numerous cellular processes intimately linked with the dynamic rearrangement of cellular membranes.

Lima, W. C., et al. (2014). "Role of PKD2 in rheotaxis in Dictyostelium." PLoS One 9(2): e88682.
	The sensing of mechanical forces modulates several cellular responses as adhesion, migration and differentiation. Transient elevations of calcium concentration play a key role in the activation of cells following mechanical stress, but it is still unclear how eukaryotic cells convert a mechanical signal into an ion flux. In this study, we used the model organism Dictyostelium discoideum to assess systematically the role of individual calcium channels in mechanosensing. Our results indicate that PKD2 is the major player in the cell response to rheotaxis (i.e., shear-flow induced mechanical motility), while other putative calcium channels play at most minor roles. Mutant pkd2 KO cells lose the ability to orient relative to a shear flow, whereas their ability to move towards a chemoattractant is unaffected. PKD2 is also important for calcium-induced lysosome exocytosis: WT cells show a transient, 2-fold increase in lysosome secretion upon sudden exposure to high levels of extracellular calcium, but pkd2 KO cells do not. In Dictyostelium, PKD2 is specifically localized at the plasma membrane, where it may generate calcium influxes in response to mechanical stress or extracellular calcium changes.

Lima, W. C., et al. (2014). "Two distinct sensing pathways allow recognition of Klebsiella pneumoniae by Dictyostelium amoebae." Cell Microbiol 16(3): 311-323.
	Recognition of bacteria by metazoans is mediated by receptors that recognize different types of microorganisms and elicit specific cellular responses. The soil amoebae Dictyostelium discoideum feeds upon a variable mixture of environmental bacteria, and it is expected to recognize and adapt to various food sources. To date, however, no bacteria-sensing mechanisms have been described. In this study, we isolated a Dictyostelium mutant (fspA KO) unable to grow in the presence of non-capsulated Klebsiella pneumoniae bacteria, but growing as efficiently as wild-type cells in the presence of other bacteria, such as Bacillus subtilis. fspA KO cells were also unable to respond to K. pneumoniae and more specifically to bacterially secreted folate in a chemokinetic assay, while they responded readily to B. subtilis. Remarkably, both WT and fspA KO cells were able to grow in the presence of capsulated LM21 K. pneumoniae, and responded to purified capsule, indicating that capsule recognition may represent an alternative, FspA-independent mechanism for K. pneumoniae sensing. When LM21 capsule synthesis genes were deleted, growth and chemokinetic response were lost for fspA KO cells, but not for WT cells. Altogether, these results indicate that Dictyostelium amoebae use specific recognition mechanisms to respond to different K. pneumoniae elements.

Liburd, J., et al. (2014). "Structure of the small Dictyostelium discoideum myosin light chain MlcB provides insights into MyoB IQ motif recognition." J Biol Chem 289(24): 17030-17042.
	Dictyostelium discoideum MyoB is a class I myosin involved in the formation and retraction of membrane projections, cortical tension generation, membrane recycling, and phagosome maturation. The MyoB-specific, single-lobe EF-hand light chain MlcB binds the sole IQ motif of MyoB with submicromolar affinity in the absence and presence of Ca(2+). However, the structural features of this novel myosin light chain and its interaction with its cognate IQ motif remain uncharacterized. Here, we describe the NMR-derived solution structure of apoMlcB, which displays a globular four-helix bundle. Helix 1 adopts a unique orientation when compared with the apo states of the EF-hand calcium-binding proteins calmodulin, S100B, and calbindin D9k. NMR-based chemical shift perturbation mapping identified a hydrophobic MyoB IQ binding surface that involves amino acid residues in helices I and IV and the functional N-terminal Ca(2+) binding loop, a site that appears to be maintained when MlcB adopts the holo state. Complementary mutagenesis and binding studies indicated that residues Ile-701, Phe-705, and Trp-708 of the MyoB IQ motif are critical for recognition of MlcB, which together allowed the generation of a structural model of the apoMlcB-MyoB IQ complex. We conclude that the mode of IQ motif recognition by the novel single-lobe MlcB differs considerably from that of stereotypical bilobal light chains such as calmodulin.

Li, S. I., et al. (2014). "Sociogenomics of self vs. non-self cooperation during development of Dictyostelium discoideum." BMC Genomics 15: 616.
	BACKGROUND: Dictyostelium discoideum, a microbial model for social evolution, is known to distinguish self from non-self and show genotype-dependent behavior during chimeric development. Aside from a small number of cell-cell recognition genes, however, little is known about the genetic basis of self/non-self recognition in this species. Based on the key hypothesis that there should be differential expression of genes if D. discoideum cells were interacting with non-clone mates, we performed transcriptomic profiling study in this species during clonal vs. chimeric development. The transcriptomic profiles of D. discoideum cells in clones vs. different chimeras were compared at five different developmental stages using a customized microarray. Effects of chimerism on global transcriptional patterns associated with social interactions were observed. RESULTS: We find 1,759 genes significantly different between chimera and clone, 1,144 genes associated significant strain differences, and 6,586 genes developmentally regulated over time. Principal component analysis showed a small amount of the transcriptional variance to chimerism-related factors (Chimerism: 0.18%, Chimerism x Timepoint: 0.03%). There are 162 genes specifically regulated under chimeric development, with continuous small differences between chimera vs. clone over development. Almost 60% of chimera-associated differential genes were differentially expressed at the 4 h aggregate stage, which corresponds to the initial transition of D. discoideum from solitary life to a multicellular phase. CONCLUSIONS: A relatively small proportion of over-all variation in gene expression is explained by differences between chimeric and clonal development. The relatively small modifications in gene expression associated with chimerism is compatible with the high level of cooperation observed among different strains of D. discoideum; cells of distinct genetic backgrounds will co-aggregate indiscriminately and co-develop into fruiting bodies. Chimeric development may involve re-programming of the transcriptome through small modifications of the developmental genetic network, which may also indicate that response to social interaction involves many genes with individually small transcriptional effect.

Levine, H. (2014). "Learning physics of living systems from Dictyostelium." Phys Biol 11(5): 053011.
	Unlike a new generation of scientists that are being trained directly to work on the physics of living systems, most of us more senior members of the community had to find our way from other research areas. We all have our own stories as to how we made this transition. Here, I describe how a chance encounter with the eukaryotic microorganism Dictyostelium discoideum led to a decades-long research project and taught me valuable lessons about how physics and biology can be mutually supportive disciplines.

Kuwayama, H., et al. (2014). "Cross-species functional complementation of cellulose synthase during the development of cellular slime molds." Dev Growth Differ 56(7): 526-533.
	Cellulose is a major and important component of the extracellular matrix during the development of Dictyostelium discoideum. Upon starvation, solitary amoebae of D. discoideum gather and form fruiting bodies in which cells differentiate into stalk cells and spores. The stalk tubes and walls of spores and stalk cells are made of cellulose. In the genus Acytostelium, however, all cells are destined to become spores and the stalks comprise only a cellulose tube, suggesting species-specific regulation of cellulose synthesis. In this study, we cloned a putative cellulose synthase gene (cesA) of Acytostelium subglobosum and performed comparative analyses with the D. discoideum cellulose synthase gene (dcsA). Although the deduced amino acid sequences were highly conserved between cesA and dcsA, the numbers of transmembrane spans preceding the catalytic domain were dissimilar; 2 and 3, respectively. Since ectopic expression of cesA in dcsA(-) null cells failed to restore the developmental defects of the mutant, we constructed a series of chimerical genes for complementation analyses and found that the catalytic domain of cesA was functional in D. discoideum cells if the preceding transmembrane region was swapped with dcsA. The non-functional products that contained the cesA-derived transmembrane region were localized to lysosomes. These results indicate that the transmembrane region of cellulose synthase is essential for proper accumulation of cellulose during the development of D. discoideum and that its differential localization in A. subglobosum may be related to the characteristic morphogenesis in this species.

Kunii, M., et al. (2014). "A Dictyostelium cellobiohydrolase orthologue that affects developmental timing." Dev Genes Evol 224(1): 25-35.
	Dictyostelium discoideum is a facultative multicellular amoebozoan with cellulose in the stalk and spore coat of its fruiting body as well as in the extracellular matrix of the migrating slug. The organism also harbors a number of cellulase genes. One of them, cbhA, was identified as a candidate cellobiohydrolase gene based on the strong homology of its predicted protein product to fungal cellobiohydrolase I (CBHI). Expression of the cbhA was developmentally regulated, with strong expression in the spores of the mature fruiting body. However, a weak but detectable level of expression was observed in the extracellular matrix at the mound - tipped finger stages, in prestalk O cells, and in the slime sheath of the migrating slug - late culminant stages. A null mutant of the cbhA showed almost normal morphology. However, the developmental timing of the mutant was delayed by 2-4 h. When a c-Myc epitope-tagged CbhA was expressed, it was secreted into the culture medium and was able to bind crystalline cellulose. The CbhA-myc protein was glycosylated, as demonstrated by its ability to bind succinyl concanavalin A-agarose. Moreover, conditioned medium from the cbhA-myc (oe) strain displayed 4-methylumbelliferyl beta-D-cellobioside (4-MUC) digesting activity in Zymograms in which conditioned medium was examined via native-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis or spotted on an agar plate containing 4-MUC, one of the substrates of cellobiohydrolase. Taken together, these findings indicate that Dictyostelium CbhA is an orthologue of CBH I that is required for a normal rate of development.

Kubohara, Y., et al. (2014). "Properties of a non-bioactive fluorescent derivative of differentiation-inducing factor-3, an anti-tumor agent found in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biol Open 3(4): 289-296.
	Differentiation-inducing factor-3 (DIF-3), found in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum, and its derivatives, such as butoxy-DIF-3 (Bu-DIF-3), are potent anti-tumor agents. To investigate the activity of DIF-like molecules in tumor cells, we recently synthesized a green fluorescent DIF-3 derivative, BODIPY-DIF-3G, and analyzed its bioactivity and cellular localization. In this study, we synthesized a red (orange) fluorescent DIF-3 derivative, BODIPY-DIF-3R, and compared the cellular localization and bioactivities of the two BODIPY-DIF-3s in HeLa human cervical cancer cells. Both fluorescent compounds penetrated the extracellular membrane within 0.5&emsp14;h and localized mainly to the mitochondria. In formalin-fixed cells, the two BODIPY-DIF-3s also localized to the mitochondria, indicating that the BODIPY-DIF-3s were incorporated into mitochondria independently of the mitochondrial membrane potential. After treatment for 3 days, BODIPY-DIF-3G, but not BODIPY-DIF-3R, induced mitochondrial swelling and suppressed cell proliferation. Interestingly, the swollen mitochondria were stainable with BODIPY-DIF-3G but not with BODIPY-DIF-3R. When added to isolated mitochondria in vitro, BODIPY-DIF-3G increased dose-dependently the rate of O2 consumption, but BODIPY-DIF-3R did not. These results suggest that the bioactive BODIPY-DIF-3G suppresses cell proliferation, at least in part, by altering mitochondrial activity, whereas the non-bioactive BODIPY-DIF-3R localizes to the mitochondria but does not affect mitochondrial activity or cell proliferation.

Kovacs-Bogdan, E., et al. (2014). "Reconstitution of the mitochondrial calcium uniporter in yeast." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 111(24): 8985-8990.
	The mitochondrial calcium uniporter is a highly selective calcium channel distributed broadly across eukaryotes but absent in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The molecular components of the human uniporter holocomplex (uniplex) have been identified recently. The uniplex consists of three membrane-spanning subunits--mitochondrial calcium uniporter (MCU), its paralog MCUb, and essential MCU regulator (EMRE)--and two soluble regulatory components--MICU1 and its paralog MICU2. The minimal components sufficient for in vivo uniporter activity are unknown. Here we consider Dictyostelium discoideum (Dd), a member of the Amoebazoa outgroup of Metazoa and Fungi, and show that it has a highly simplified uniporter machinery. We show that D. discoideum mitochondria exhibit membrane potential-dependent calcium uptake compatible with uniporter activity, and also that expression of DdMCU complements the mitochondrial calcium uptake defect in human cells lacking MCU or EMRE. Moreover, expression of DdMCU in yeast alone is sufficient to reconstitute mitochondrial calcium uniporter activity. Having established yeast as an in vivo reconstitution system, we then reconstituted the human uniporter. We show that coexpression of MCU and EMRE is sufficient for uniporter activity, whereas expression of MCU alone is insufficient. Our work establishes yeast as a powerful in vivo reconstitution system for the uniporter. Using this system, we confirm that MCU is the pore-forming subunit, define the minimal genetic elements sufficient for metazoan and nonmetazoan uniporter activity, and provide valuable insight into the evolution of the uniporter machinery.

Komatsuzaki, A., et al. (2014). "Compact Halo-Ligand-Conjugated Quantum Dots for Multicolored Single-Molecule Imaging of Overcrowding GPCR Proteins on Cell Membranes." Small.
	To detect single molecules within the optical diffraction limit (< ca. 200 nm), a multicolored imaging technique is developed using Halo-ligand conjugated quantum dots (Halo-QDs; <6 nm in diameter). Using three types of Halo-QDs, multicolored single-molecule fluorescence imaging of GPCR proteins in Dictyostelium cells is achieved.

Kolonko, M., et al. (2014). "WASH-driven actin polymerization is required for efficient mycobacterial phagosome maturation arrest." Cell Microbiol 16(2): 232-246.
	Pathogenic mycobacteria survive in phagocytic host cells primarily as a result of their ability to prevent fusion of their vacuole with lysosomes, thereby avoiding a bactericidal environment. The molecular mechanisms to establish and maintain this replication compartment are not well understood. By combining molecular and microscopical approaches we show here that after phagocytosis the actin nucleation-promoting factor WASH associates and generates F-actin on the mycobacterial vacuole. Disruption of WASH or depolymerization of F-actin leads to the accumulation of the proton-pumping V-ATPase around the mycobacterial vacuole, its acidification and reduces the viability of intracellular mycobacteria. This effect is observed for M. marinum in the model phagocyte Dictyostelium but also for M. marinum and M. tuberculosis in mammalian phagocytes. This demonstrates an evolutionarily conserved mechanism by which pathogenic mycobacteria subvert the actin-polymerization activity of WASH to prevent phagosome acidification and maturation, as a prerequisite to generate and maintain a replicative niche.

Knoch, F., et al. (2014). "Modeling self-organized spatio-temporal patterns of PIP(3) and PTEN during spontaneous cell polarization." Phys Biol 11(4): 046002.
	During spontaneous cell polarization of Dictyostelium discoideum cells, phosphatidylinositol (3,4,5)-triphoshpate (PIP3) and PTEN (phosphatase tensin homolog) have been identified as key signaling molecules which govern the process of polarization in a self-organized manner. Recent experiments have quantified the spatio-temporal dynamics of these signaling components. Surprisingly, it was found that membrane-bound PTEN can be either in a high or low state, that PIP3 waves were initiated in areas lacking PTEN through an excitable mechanism, and that PIP3 was degraded even though the PTEN concentration remained low. Here we develop a reaction-diffusion model that aims to explain these experimental findings. Our model contains bistable dynamics for PTEN, excitable dynamics for PIP3, and postulates the existence of two species of PTEN with different dephosphorylation rates. We show that our model is able to produce results that are in good qualitative agreement with the experiments, suggesting that our reaction-diffusion model underlies the self-organized spatio-temporal patterns observed in experiments.

Kirchberger, P. C., et al. (2014). "Vibrio metoecus sp. nov., a close relative of Vibrio cholerae isolated from coastal brackish ponds and clinical specimens." Int J Syst Evol Microbiol 64(Pt 9): 3208-3214.
	A Gram-staining-negative, curved-rod-shaped bacterium with close resemblance to Vibrio cholerae, the aetiological agent of cholera, was isolated over the course of several years from coastal brackish water (17 strains) and from clinical cases (two strains) in the United States. 16S rRNA gene identity with V. cholerae exceeded 98 % yet an average nucleotide identity based on genome data of around 86 % and multi locus sequence analysis of six housekeeping genes (mdh, adk, gyrB, recA, pgi and rpoB) clearly delineated these isolates as a distinct genotypic cluster within the V. cholerae-V. mimicus clade. Most standard identification techniques do not differentiate this cluster of isolates from V. cholerae. Only amplification of the ompW gene using V. cholerae-specific primers and a negative Voges-Proskauer test showed a difference between the two clusters. Additionally, all isolated strains differed phenotypically from V. cholerae in their ability to utilize N-acetyl-d-galactosamine and d-glucuronic acid as sole carbon sources. Furthermore, they were generally unable to infect the slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum, a widespread ability in V. cholerae. Based on these clear phenotypic differences that are not necessarily apparent in standard tests as well as average nucleotide identity and phylogeny of protein-coding genes, we propose the existence of a novel species, Vibrio metoecus sp. nov. with the type strain OP3H(T) ( = LMG 27764(T) = CIP 110643(T)). Due to its close resemblance to V. cholerae and the increasing number of strains isolated over the past several years, we suggest that V. metoecus sp. nov. is a relatively common species of the genus Vibrio, isolates of which have been identified as atypical isolates of V. cholerae in the past. Its isolation from clinical samples also indicates that strains of this species, like V. cholerae, are opportunistic pathogens.

Kim, J. S., et al. (2014). "Glutathione initiates the development of Dictyostelium discoideum through the regulation of YakA." Biochim Biophys Acta 1843(3): 664-674.
	Reduced glutathione (GSH) is an essential metabolite that performs multiple indispensable roles during the development of Dictyostelium. We show here that disruption of the gene (gcsA-) encoding y-glutamylcysteine synthetase, an essential enzyme in GSH biosynthesis, inhibited aggregation, and that this developmental defect was rescued by exogenous GSH, but not by other thiols or antioxidants. In GSH-depleted gcsA- cells, the expression ofa growth-stage-specific gene (cprD) was not inhibited, and we did not detect the expression of genes that encode proteins required for early development (cAMP receptor, carA/cAR1; adenylyl cyclase, acaA/ACA; and the catalytic subunit of protein kinase A, pkaC/PKA-C). The defects in gcsA cells were not restored by cAMP stimulation or by cAR1 expression. Further, the expression of yakA, which initiates development and induces the expression of PKA-C, ACA, and cAR1, was regulated by the intracellular concentration of GSH. Constitutive expression of YakA in gcsA- cells (YakA(OE)/gcsA-) rescued the defects in developmental initiation and the expression of early developmental genes in the absence of GSH. Taken together, these findings suggest that GSH plays an essential role in the transition from growth to development by modulating the expression of the genes encoding YakA as well as components thatact downstream in the YakA signaling pathway.

Kicinska, A., et al. (2014). "Acanthamoeba castellanii STAT protein." PLoS One 9(10): e111345.
	STAT (signal transducers and activators of transcription) proteins are one of the important mediators of phosphotyrosine-regulated signaling in metazoan cells. We described the presence of STAT protein in a unicellular, free-living amoebae with a simple life cycle, Acanthamoeba castellanii. A. castellanii is the only, studied to date, Amoebozoan that does not belong to Mycetozoa but possesses STATs. A sequence of the A. castellanii STAT protein includes domains similar to those of the Dictyostelium STAT proteins: a coiled coil (characteristic for Dictyostelium STAT coiled coil), a STAT DNA-binding domain and a Src-homology domain. The search for protein sequences homologous to A. castellanii STAT revealed 17 additional sequences from lower eukaryotes. Interestingly, all of these sequences come from Amoebozoa organisms that belong to either Mycetozoa (slime molds) or Centramoebida. We showed that there are four separated clades within the slime mold STAT proteins. The A. castellanii STAT protein branches next to a group of STATc proteins from Mycetozoa. We also demonstrate that Amoebozoa form a distinct monophyletic lineage within the STAT protein world that is well separated from the other groups.

Kay, R. R., et al. (2014). "The IQGAP-related protein DGAP1 mediates signaling to the actin cytoskeleton as an effector and a sequestrator of Rac1 GTPases." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 71(15): 2775-2785.
	Proteins are typically categorized into protein families based on their domain organization. Yet, evolutionarily unrelated proteins can also be grouped together according to their common functional roles. Sequestering proteins constitute one such functional class, acting as macromolecular buffers and serving as an intracellular reservoir ready to release large quantities of bound proteins or other molecules upon appropriate stimulation. Another functional protein class comprises effector proteins, which constitute essential components of many intracellular signal transduction pathways. For instance, effectors of small GTP-hydrolases are activated upon binding a GTP-bound GTPase and thereupon participate in downstream interactions. Here we describe a member of the IQGAP family of scaffolding proteins, DGAP1 from Dictyostelium, which unifies the roles of an effector and a sequestrator in regard to the small GTPase Rac1. Unlike classical effectors, which bind their activators transiently leading to short-lived signaling complexes, interaction between DGAP1 and Rac1-GTP is stable and induces formation of a complex with actin-bundling proteins cortexillins at the back end of the cell. An oppositely localized Rac1 effector, the Scar/WAVE complex, promotes actin polymerization at the cell front. Competition between DGAP1 and Scar/WAVE for the common activator Rac1-GTP might provide the basis for the oscillatory re-polarization typically seen in randomly migrating Dictyostelium cells. We discuss the consequences of the dual roles exerted by DGAP1 and Rac1 in the regulation of cell motility and polarity, and propose that similar signaling mechanisms may be of general importance in regulating spatiotemporal dynamics of the actin cytoskeleton by small GTPases.

Karunaratne, C. V., et al. (2014). "Conformational changes associated with post-translational modifications of Pro(143) in Skp1 of Dictyostelium--a dipeptide model system." J Am Chem Soc 136(43): 15170-15175.
	Prolyl hydroxylation and subsequent glycosylation of the E3(SCF) ubiquitin ligase subunit Skp1 affects its conformation and its interaction with F-box proteins and, ultimately, O2-sensing in the organism. Taking a reductionist approach to understand the molecular basis for these effects, a series of end-capped Thr-Pro dipeptides was synthesized, tracking the sequential post-translational modifications that occur in the protein. The conformation of the pyrrolidine ring in each compound was gauged via coupling constants ((3)JHalpha,Hbeta) and the electronegativity of the Cgamma-substituents by chemical shifts ((13)C). The equilibrium between the cis-trans conformations about the central prolyl peptide bond was investigated by integration of signals corresponding to the two species in the (1)H NMR spectra over a range of temperatures. These studies revealed an increasing preference for the trans-conformation in the order Pro < Hyp < [alpha-(1,4)GlcNAc]Hyp. Rates for the forward and reverse reactions, determined by magnetization transfer experiments, demonstrated a reduced rate for the trans-to-cis conversion and a significant increase in the cis-to-trans conversion upon hydroxylation of the proline residue in the dipeptide. NOE experiments suggest that the Thr side chain pushes the sugar away from the pyrrolidine ring. These effects, which depended on the presence of the N-terminal Thr residue, offer a mechanism to explain altered properties of the corresponding full-length proteins.

Jeukens, J., et al. (2014). "Comparative genomics of isolates of a Pseudomonas aeruginosa epidemic strain associated with chronic lung infections of cystic fibrosis patients." PLoS One 9(2): e87611.
	Pseudomonas aeruginosa is the main cause of fatal chronic lung infections among individuals suffering from cystic fibrosis (CF). During the past 15 years, particularly aggressive strains transmitted among CF patients have been identified, initially in Europe and more recently in Canada. The aim of this study was to generate high-quality genome sequences for 7 isolates of the Liverpool epidemic strain (LES) from the United Kingdom and Canada representing different virulence characteristics in order to: (1) associate comparative genomics results with virulence factor variability and (2) identify genomic and/or phenotypic divergence between the two geographical locations. We performed phenotypic characterization of pyoverdine, pyocyanin, motility, biofilm formation, and proteolytic activity. We also assessed the degree of virulence using the Dictyostelium discoideum amoeba model. Comparative genomics analysis revealed at least one large deletion (40-50 kb) in 6 out of the 7 isolates compared to the reference genome of LESB58. These deletions correspond to prophages, which are known to increase the competitiveness of LESB58 in chronic lung infection. We also identified 308 non-synonymous polymorphisms, of which 28 were associated with virulence determinants and 52 with regulatory proteins. At the phenotypic level, isolates showed extensive variability in production of pyocyanin, pyoverdine, proteases and biofilm as well as in swimming motility, while being predominantly avirulent in the amoeba model. Isolates from the two continents were phylogenetically and phenotypically undistinguishable. Most regulatory mutations were isolate-specific and 29% of them were predicted to have high functional impact. Therefore, polymorphism in regulatory genes is likely to be an important basis for phenotypic diversity among LES isolates, which in turn might contribute to this strain's adaptability to varying conditions in the CF lung.

Ishimoto, K. and E. A. Gaffney (2014). "Swimming efficiency of spherical squirmers: beyond the Lighthill theory." Phys Rev E Stat Nonlin Soft Matter Phys 90(1): 012704.
	Nonreciprocal shape deformations can drive inertialess cellular swimming, as first explored by Taylor and Lighthill in the 1950s, for the small-amplitude squirming of a planar and a spherical surface, respectively. Lighthill's squirmer, in particular, has been extensively studied for large wave numbers in the context of ciliated microbes. The maximal power efficiency for small-amplitude planar squirming motility is well characterized and degenerate, with nonunique optimal swimming strokes. We explicitly show that this degeneracy is retained at high wave numbers for the small-amplitude spherical squirmer such as a ciliated microbe but is broken for low wave numbers. Hence further complexity emerges in parameter regimes outside that of ciliate swimming even at small amplitudes. Large-amplitude squirming also characterizes more recent observations of large-amplitude/low-wave-number membrane deformations driving the motility of Euglena, neutrophils, and Dictyostelium discoideum. Thus boundary element numerical methods are used to explore swimming with increased deformation amplitudes, especially in the context of power efficiency and swimming performance. As radial squirming amplitudes are increased, small-amplitude linearized theories can be unreliable even for nominally low deformation amplitudes. Furthermore, even for a simple single-mode metachronal wave, a highly motile and efficient large-deformation/small-wave-number swimming modality arises, which can surpass theoretical limitations of purely tangential squirming given a constrained surface deformation velocity.

Hykollari, A., et al. (2014). "N-glycomic profiling of a glucosidase II mutant of Dictyostelium discoideum by ''off-line'' liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry." Electrophoresis 35(15): 2116-2129.
	In this study, we have performed the first mass spectrometric analysis of N-glycans of the M31 mutant strain of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum, previously shown to have a defect in glucosidase II. Together with glucosidase I, this enzyme mediates part of the initial processing of N-glycans; defects in either glucosidase are associated with human diseases and result in an accumulation of incorrectly processed oligosaccharides which are not, or only poor, substrates for a range of downstream enzymes. To examine the effect of the glucosidase II mutation in Dictyostelium, we employed off-line LC-MALDI-TOF MS in combination with chemical and enzymatic treatments and MS/MS to analyze the neutral and anionic N-glycans of the mutant as compared to the wild type. The major neutral species were, as expected, of the composition Hex10-11 HexNAc2-3 with one or two terminal glucose residues. Consistent with the block in processing of neutral N-glycans caused by the absence of glucosidase II, fucose was apparently absent from the N-glycans and bisecting N-acetylglucosamine was rare. The major anionic oligosaccharides were sulfated and/or methylphosphorylated forms of Hex8-11 HexNAc2-3 , many of which surprisingly lacked glucose residues entirely. As anionic N-glycans are considered to be mostly associated with lysosomal enzymes in Dictyostelium, we hypothesise that glycosidases present in the acidic compartments may act on the oligosaccharides attached to such slime mould proteins. Furthermore, our chosen analytical approach enabled us, via observation of diagnostic negative-mode MS/MS fragments, to determine the fine structure of the methylphosphorylated and sulfated N-glycans of the M31 glucosidase mutant in their native state.

Huber, R. J., et al. (2014). "Loss of Cln3 function in the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum causes pleiotropic effects that are rescued by human CLN3." PLoS One 9(10): e110544.
	The neuronal ceroid lipofuscinoses (NCL) are a group of inherited, severe neurodegenerative disorders also known as Batten disease. Juvenile NCL (JNCL) is caused by recessive loss-of-function mutations in CLN3, which encodes a transmembrane protein that regulates endocytic pathway trafficking, though its primary function is not yet known. The social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum is increasingly utilized for neurological disease research and is particularly suited for investigation of protein function in trafficking. Therefore, here we establish new overexpression and knockout Dictyostelium cell lines for JNCL research. Dictyostelium Cln3 fused to GFP localized to the contractile vacuole system and to compartments of the endocytic pathway. cln3- cells displayed increased rates of proliferation and an associated reduction in the extracellular levels and cleavage of the autocrine proliferation repressor, AprA. Mid- and late development of cln3- cells was precocious and cln3- slugs displayed increased migration. Expression of either Dictyostelium Cln3 or human CLN3 in cln3- cells suppressed the precocious development and aberrant slug migration, which were also suppressed by calcium chelation. Taken together, our results show that Cln3 is a pleiotropic protein that negatively regulates proliferation and development in Dictyostelium. This new model system, which allows for the study of Cln3 function in both single cells and a multicellular organism, together with the observation that expression of human CLN3 restores abnormalities in Dictyostelium cln3- cells, strongly supports the use of this new model for JNCL research.

Huber, R. J. (2014). "The cyclin-dependent kinase family in the social amoebozoan Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Mol Life Sci 71(4): 629-639.
	Cyclin-dependent kinases (Cdk) are a family of serine/threonine protein kinases that regulate eukaryotic cell cycle progression. Their ability to modulate the cell cycle has made them an attractive target for anti-cancer therapies. Cdk protein function has been studied in a variety of Eukaryotes ranging from yeast to humans. In the social amoebozoan Dictyostelium discoideum, several homologues of mammalian Cdks have been identified and characterized. The life cycle of this model organism is comprised of a feeding stage where single cells grow and divide mitotically as they feed on their bacterial food source and a multicellular developmental stage that is induced by starvation. Thus it is a valuable system for studying a variety of cellular and developmental processes. In this review I summarize the current knowledge of the Cdk protein family in Dictyostelium by highlighting the research efforts focused on the characterization of Cdk1, Cdk5, and Cdk8 in this model Eukaryote. Accumulated evidence indicates that each protein performs distinct functions during the Dictyostelium life cycle with Cdk1 being required for growth and Cdk5 and Cdk8 being required for processes that occur during development. Recent studies have shown that Dictyostelium Cdk5 shares attributes with mammalian Cdk5 and that the mammalian Cdk inhibitor roscovitine can be used to inhibit Cdk5 activity in Dictyostelium. Together, these results show that Dictyostelium can be used as a model system for studying Cdk protein function.

Hirst, J., et al. (2014). "Characterization of TSET, an ancient and widespread membrane trafficking complex." Elife 3: e02866.
	The heterotetrameric AP and F-COPI complexes help to define the cellular map of modern eukaryotes. To search for related machinery, we developed a structure-based bioinformatics tool, and identified the core subunits of TSET, a 'missing link' between the APs and COPI. Studies in Dictyostelium indicate that TSET is a heterohexamer, with two associated scaffolding proteins. TSET is non-essential in Dictyostelium, but may act in plasma membrane turnover, and is essentially identical to the recently described TPLATE complex, TPC. However, whereas TPC was reported to be plant-specific, we can identify a full or partial complex in every eukaryotic supergroup. An evolutionary path can be deduced from the earliest origins of the heterotetramer/scaffold coat to its multiple manifestations in modern organisms, including the mammalian muniscins, descendants of the TSET medium subunits. Thus, we have uncovered the machinery for an ancient and widespread pathway, which provides new insights into early eukaryotic evolution.DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.7554/eLife.02866.001.

Hiraiwa, T., et al. (2014). "Relevance of intracellular polarity to accuracy of eukaryotic chemotaxis." Phys Biol 11(5): 056002.
	Eukaryotic chemotaxis is usually mediated by intracellular signals that tend to localize at the front or back of the cell. Such intracellular polarities frequently require no extracellular guidance cues, indicating that spontaneous polarization occurs in the signal network. Spontaneous polarization activity is considered relevant to the persistent motions in random cell migrations and chemotaxis. In this study, we propose a theoretical model that connects spontaneous intracellular polarity and motile ability in a chemoattractant solution. We demonstrate that the intracellular polarity can enhance the accuracy of chemotaxis. Chemotactic accuracy should also depend on chemoattractant concentration through the concentration-dependent correlation time in the polarity direction. Both the polarity correlation time and the chemotactic accuracy depend on the degree of responsiveness to the chemical gradient. We show that optimally accurate chemotaxis occurs at an intermediate responsiveness of intracellular polarity. Experimentally, we find that the persistence time of randomly migrating Dictyostelium cells depends on the chemoattractant concentration, as predicted by our theory. At the optimum responsiveness, this ameboid cell can enhance its chemotactic accuracy tenfold.

Hayashida, M., et al. (2014). "Proteome compression via protein domain compositions." Methods 67(3): 380-385.
	In this paper, we study domain compositions of proteins via compression of whole proteins in an organism for the sake of obtaining the entropy that the individual contains. We suppose that a protein is a multiset of domains. Since gene duplication and fusion have occurred through evolutionary processes, the same domains and the same compositions of domains appear in multiple proteins, which enables us to compress a proteome by using references to proteins for duplicated and fused proteins. Such a network with references to at most two proteins is modeled as a directed hypergraph. We propose a heuristic approach by combining the Edmonds algorithm and an integer linear programming, and apply our procedure to 14 proteomes of Dictyostelium discoideum, Escherichia coli, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Schizosaccharomyces pombe, Caenorhabditis elegans, Drosophila melanogaster, Arabidopsis thaliana, Oryza sativa, Danio rerio, Xenopus laevis, Gallus gallus, Mus musculus, Pan troglodytes, and Homo sapiens. The compressed size using both of duplication and fusion was smaller than that using only duplication, which suggests the importance of fusion events in evolution of a proteome.

Gui, C. P., et al. (2014). "Overexpression of the tomato pollen receptor kinase LePRK1 rewires pollen tube growth to a blebbing mode."  26(9): 3538-3555.
	The tubular growth of a pollen tube cell is crucial for the sexual reproduction of flowering plants. LePRK1 is a pollen-specific and plasma membrane-localized receptor-like kinase from tomato (Solanum lycopersicum). LePRK1 interacts with another receptor, LePRK2, and with KINASE PARTNER PROTEIN (KPP), a Rop guanine nucleotide exchange factor. Here, we show that pollen tubes overexpressing LePRK1 or a truncated LePRK1 lacking its extracellular domain (LePRK1DeltaECD) have enlarged tips but also extend their leading edges by producing "blebs." Coexpression of LePRK1 and tomato PLIM2a, an actin bundling protein that interacts with KPP in a Ca(2+)-responsive manner, suppressed these LePRK1 overexpression phenotypes, whereas pollen tubes coexpressing KPP, LePRK1, and PLIM2a resumed the blebbing growth mode. We conclude that overexpression of LePRK1 or LePRK1DeltaECD rewires pollen tube growth to a blebbing mode, through KPP- and PLIM2a-mediated bundling of actin filaments from tip plasma membranes. Arabidopsis thaliana pollen tubes expressing LePRK1DeltaECD also grew by blebbing. Our results exposed a hidden capability of the pollen tube cell: upon overexpression of a single membrane-localized molecule, LePRK1 or LePRK1DeltaECD, it can switch to an alternative mechanism for extension of the leading edge that is analogous to the blebbing growth mode reported for Dictyostelium and for Drosophila melanogaster stem cells.

Grover, S., et al. (2014). "Expression and secretion of wild type and mutant GNE proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum." CNS Neurol Disord Drug Targets 13(7): 1263-1272.
	GNE (UDP-N-acetylglucosamine 2-epimerase/N-acetylmannosamine kinase) is a bifunctional enzyme which catalyzes the conversion of UDP-GlcNAc to ManNAc and ManNAc to ManNAc 6-phosphate, key steps in the sialic acid biosynthesis. Mutations in GNE lead to a neuromuscular disorder, Hereditary Inclusion Body Myopathy (HIBM). A major limitation in understanding the function of GNE is lack of recombinant full length GNE (rGNE) protein for detailed biophysical and structural characterization. In the present study, we have used Dictyostelium discoideum (Dd) as an alternate host for successful expression and secretion of functionally active form of GNE and its mutant proteins. We have generated Dd-AX3 stable cell lines harboring wtGNE or its mutants with Dd specific secretory signal sequence, PsA (prespore antigen). Upon starvation, rGNE was secreted in the medium from secretory vesicles. The rGNE was functionally active with epimerase activity (54+/-5.2 mU/mg) and kinase activity (66.45+/-3.48 mU/mg), while both epimerase and kinase activities of mutant GNE were drastically reduced. These activities were found to be statistically significant at p value < 0.05. Our study clearly demonstrates that Dd can be used as an expression host for the production of recombinant and functionally active form of GNE and its mutant proteins that can be used for biophysical characterization and structural determination of GNE to understand the pathomechanism of HIBM.

Griffin, P., et al. (2014). "Requirements for Hirano body formation." Eukaryot Cell 13(5): 625-634.
	Hirano bodies are paracrystalline F-actin-rich structures associated with diverse conditions, including neurodegeneration and aging. Generation of model Hirano bodies using altered forms of Dictyostelium 34-kDa actin-bundling protein allows studies of their physiological function and mechanism of formation. We describe a novel 34-kDa protein mutant, E60K, with a point mutation within the inhibitory domain of the 34-kDa protein. Expression of E60K in Dictyostelium induces the formation of model Hirano bodies. The E60K protein has activated actin binding and is calcium regulated, unlike other forms of the 34-kDa protein that induce Hirano bodies and that have activated actin binding but lack calcium regulation. Actin filaments in the presence of E60K in vitro show enhanced resistance to disassembly induced by latrunculin B. Actin filaments in model Hirano bodies are also protected from latrunculin-induced depolymerization. We used nocodazole and blebbistatin to probe the role of the microtubules and myosin II, respectively, in the formation of model Hirano bodies. In the presence of these inhibitors, model Hirano bodies can form but are smaller than controls at early times of formation. The ultrastructure of model Hirano bodies did not reveal any major difference in structure and organization in the presence of inhibitors. In summary, these results support the conclusion that formation of model Hirano bodies is promoted by gain-of-function actin filament bundling, which enhances actin filament stabilization. Microtubules and myosin II contribute to but are not required for formation of model Hirano bodies.

Gosain, A., et al. (2014). "Peptide: N- glycanase is expressed in prestalk cells and plays a role in the differentiation of prespore cells during development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Indian J Exp Biol 52(3): 197-206.
	Peptide: N-glycanase (PNGase) enzyme is found throughout eukaryotes and plays an important role in the misfolded glycoprotein degradation pathway. This communication reports the expression patterns of the pngase transcript (as studied by the analysis of beta-galactosidase reporter driven by the putative pngase promoter) and protein (as studied by the analysis of beta-galactosidase reporter expressed under the putative pngase promoter as a fusion with the pngase ORF) during development and further elucidated the developmental defects of the cells lacking PNGase (png(-)). The results show that the DdPNGase is an essential protein expressed throughout development and beta-galactosidase activity was present in the anterior part of the slug. In structures derived from a null mutant for pngase, the prestalk A and AO patterning was expanded and covered a large section of the prespore region of the slugs. When developed as chimeras with wild type, the png(-) cells preferentially populate the prestalk/stalk region. When the mutants were mixed in higher ratios, they also tend to form the prespore/spore cells. The results emphasize that the DdPNGase has an essential role during development and the mutants have defects in a system that changes the physiological dynamics in the prespore cells. DdPNGase play a role in development both during aggregation and in the differentiation of prespore cells.

Gorelik, R. and A. Gautreau (2014). "Quantitative and unbiased analysis of directional persistence in cell migration." Nat Protoc 9(8): 1931-1943.
	The mechanism by which cells control directional persistence during migration is a major question. However, the common index measuring directional persistence, namely the ratio of displacement to trajectory length, is biased, particularly by cell speed. An unbiased method is to calculate direction autocorrelation as a function of time. This function depends only on the angles of the vectors tangent to the trajectory. This method has not been widely used, because it is more difficult to compute. Here we discuss biases of the classical index and introduce a custom-made open-source computer program, DiPer, which calculates direction autocorrelation. In addition, DiPer also plots and calculates other essential parameters to analyze cell migration in two dimensions: it displays cell trajectories individually and collectively, and it calculates average speed and mean square displacements (MSDs) to assess the area explored by cells over time. This user-friendly program is executable through Microsoft Excel, and it generates plots of publication-level quality. The protocol takes approximately 15 min to complete. We have recently used DiPer to analyze cell migration of three different mammalian cell types in 2D cultures: the mammary carcinoma cell line MDA-MB-231, the motile amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum and fish-scale keratocytes. DiPer can potentially be used not only for random migration in 2D but also for directed migration and for migration in 3D (direction autocorrelation only). Moreover, it can be used for any types of tracked particles: cellular organelles, bacteria and whole organisms.

Gilsbach, B. K. and A. Kortholt (2014). "Structural biology of the LRRK2 GTPase and kinase domains: implications for regulation." Front Mol Neurosci 7: 32.
	Human leucine rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) belongs to the Roco family of proteins, which are characterized by the presence of a Ras-like G-domain (Roc), a C-terminal of Roc domain (COR), and a kinase domain. Mutations in LRRK2 have been found to be thus far the most frequent cause of late-onset Parkinson's disease (PD). Several of the pathogenic mutations in LRRK2 result in decreased GTPase activity and enhanced kinase activity, suggesting a possible PD-related gain of abnormal function. Important progress in the structural understanding of LRRK2 has come from our work with related Roco proteins from lower organisms. Atomic structures of Roco proteins from prokaryotes revealed that Roco proteins belong to the GAD class of molecular switches (G proteins activated by nucleotide dependent dimerization). As in LRRK2, PD-analogous mutations in Roco proteins from bacteria decrease the GTPase reaction. Studies with Roco proteins from the model organism Dictyostelium discoideum revealed that PD mutants have different effects and most importantly they explained the G2019S-related increased LRRK2 kinase activity. Furthermore, the structure of Dictyostelium Roco4 kinase in complex with the LRRK2 inhibitor H1152 showed that Roco4 and other Roco family proteins can be important for the optimization of the current, and identification of new, LRRK2 kinase inhibitors. In this review we highlight the recent progress in structural and biochemical characterization of Roco proteins and discuss its implication for the understanding of the complex regulatory mechanism of LRRK2.

Gerhardt, M., et al. (2014). "Signaling in chemotactic amoebae remains spatially confined to stimulated membrane regions." J Cell Sci 127(23): 5115-5125.
	Recent work has demonstrated that the receptor-mediated signaling system in chemotactic amoeboid cells shows typical properties of an excitable system. Here, we delivered spatially confined stimuli of the chemoattractant cAMP to the membrane of differentiated Dictyostelium discoideum cells to investigate whether localized receptor stimuli can induce the spreading of excitable waves in the G-protein-dependent signal transduction system. By imaging the spatiotemporal dynamics of fluorescent markers for phosphatidylinositol (3,4,5)-trisphosphate (PIP3), PTEN and filamentous actin, we observed that the activity of the signaling pathway remained spatially confined to the stimulated membrane region. Neighboring parts of the membrane were not excited and no receptor-initiated spatial spreading of excitation waves was observed. To generate localized cAMP stimuli, either particles that carried covalently bound cAMP molecules on their surface were brought into contact with the cell or a patch of the cell membrane was aspirated into a glass micropipette to shield this patch against freely diffusing cAMP molecules in the surrounding medium. Additionally, the binding site of the cAMP receptor was probed with different surface-immobilized cAMP molecules, confirming results from earlier ligand-binding studies.

Gerhardt, M., et al. (2014). "Actin and PIP3 waves in giant cells reveal the inherent length scale of an excited state." J Cell Sci 127(Pt 20): 4507-4517.
	The membrane and actin cortex of a motile cell can autonomously differentiate into two states, one typical of the front, the other of the tail. On the substrate-attached surface of Dictyostelium discoideum cells, dynamic patterns of front-like and tail-like states are generated that are well suited to monitor transitions between these states. To image large-scale pattern dynamics independently of boundary effects, we produced giant cells by electric-pulse-induced cell fusion. In these cells, actin waves are coupled to the front and back of phosphatidylinositol (3,4,5)-trisphosphate (PIP3)-rich bands that have a finite width. These composite waves propagate across the plasma membrane of the giant cells with undiminished velocity. After any disturbance, the bands of PIP3 return to their intrinsic width. Upon collision, the waves locally annihilate each other and change direction; at the cell border they are either extinguished or reflected. Accordingly, expanding areas of progressing PIP3 synthesis become unstable beyond a critical radius, their center switching from a front-like to a tail-like state. Our data suggest that PIP3 patterns in normal-sized cells are segments of the self-organizing patterns that evolve in giant cells.

Garcia, M., et al. (2014). "PakD, a putative p21-activated protein kinase in Dictyostelium discoideum, regulates actin." Eukaryot Cell 13(1): 119-126.
	Proper regulation of the actin cytoskeleton is essential for cell function and ultimately for survival. Tight control of actin dynamics is required for many cellular processes, including differentiation, proliferation, adhesion, chemotaxis, endocytosis, exocytosis, and multicellular development. Here we describe a putative p21-activated protein kinase, PakD, that regulates the actin cytoskeleton in Dictyostelium discoideum. We found that cells lacking pakD are unable to aggregate and thus unable to develop. Compared to the wild type, cells lacking PakD have decreased membrane extensions, suggesting defective regulation of the actin cytoskeleton. pakD(-) cells show poor chemotaxis toward cyclic AMP (cAMP) but normal chemotaxis toward folate, suggesting that PakD mediates some but not all chemotaxis responses. pakD(-) cells have decreased polarity when placed in a cAMP gradient, indicating that the chemotactic defects of the pakD(-) cells may be due to an impaired cytoskeletal response to cAMP. In addition, while wild-type cells polymerize actin in response to global stimulation by cAMP, pakD(-) cells exhibit F-actin depolymerization under the same conditions. Taken together, the results suggest that PakD is part of a pathway coordinating F-actin organization during development.

Foldvari-Nagy, L., et al. (2014). "Starvation-response may not involve Atg1-dependent autophagy induction in non-unikont parasites." Sci Rep 4: 5829.
	Autophagy, the lysosome-mediated self-degradation process, is implicated in survival during starvation in yeast, Dictyostelium and animals. In these eukaryotic taxa (collectively called Unikonts), autophagy is induced primarily through the Atg1/ULK1 complex in response to nutrient depletion. Autophagy has also been well-studied in non-unikont parasites, such as Trypanosoma and Plasmodium, and found important in their life-cycle transitions. However, how autophagy is induced in non-unikonts remains largely unrevealed. Using a bioinformatics approach, we examined the presence of Atg1 and of its complex in the genomes of 40 non-unikonts. We found that these genomes do not encode typical Atg1 proteins: BLAST and HMMER queries matched only with the kinase domain of Atg1, while other segments responsible for regulation and protein-binding were missing. Non-unikonts also lacked other components of the Atg1-inducing complex. Orthologs of an alternative autophagy inducer, Atg6 were found only in the half of the species, indicating that the other half may possess other inducing mechanisms. As key autophagy genes have differential expression patterns during life-cycle, we raise the possibility that autophagy in these protists is induced mainly at the post-transcriptional level. Understanding Atg1-independent autophagy induction mechanisms in these parasites may lead to novel pharmacological interventions, not affecting human Atg1-dependent autophagy.

Filion, G. and S. J. Charette (2014). "Assessing Pseudomonas aeruginosa virulence using a nonmammalian host: Dictyostelium discoideum." Methods Mol Biol 1149: 671-680.
	Dictyostelium discoideum, a soil amoeba, can be used as an alternative host to study the virulence of various bacterial species, including Pseudomonas aeruginosa. A simple quantitative test based on the ability of D. discoideum to grow on a bacterial lawn has been developed using this amoeba to assay the virulence of P. aeruginosa strains. The assay needs to be customized for the strains to be tested in order to be able to discriminate between virulent and avirulent P. aeruginosa strains. These steps are described in this protocol.

Fets, L., et al. (2014). "A PIP5 kinase essential for efficient chemotactic signaling." Curr Biol 24(4): 415-421.
	In neutrophils and Dictyostelium, chemoattractant gradients generate directed cell migration by eliciting signaling events that bias intrinsic motility and favor the production and retention of upgradient pseudopods. Phosphoinositides are actively regulated during chemotaxis in these cells, most iconically in the production of PI(3,4,5)P3 gradients within the plasma membrane. Although it is now known that PI(3,4,5)P3 signaling is nonessential for gradient sensing, the role of the related phosphoinositide PI(4,5)P2 is little understood, despite its clear importance in many cell biological processes. We describe here a PIP5 kinase, PikI, which produces PI(4,5)P2 and is essential for efficient chemotaxis of Dictyostelium cells. Without PikI, PI(4,5)P2 levels are reduced by 90%, and while pikI(-) cells move at normal speeds, they are highly disorientated in cAMP gradients. Following chemotactic stimulation, Ras is efficiently activated in pikI(-) cells, yet Ras-dependent responses (including activation of PKB) are severely impaired. PikI is phosphorylated by PKB, and in vitro studies of a phosphomimic mutant suggest that this phosphorylation increases PikI activity. We propose that adequate PI(4,5)P2 levels are required to couple activated Ras to its downstream effectors and that these levels are regulated by PikI, making it a crucial player in gradient sensing.

Falkenstein, K. and A. De Lozanne (2014). "Dictyostelium LvsB has a regulatory role in endosomal vesicle fusion." J Cell Sci 127(Pt 20): 4356-4367.
	Defects in human lysosomal-trafficking regulator (Lyst) are associated with the lysosomal disorder Chediak-Higashi syndrome. The absence of Lyst results in the formation of enlarged lysosome-related compartments, but the mechanism for how these compartments arise is not well established. Two opposing models have been proposed to explain Lyst function. The fission model describes Lyst as a positive regulator of fission from lysosomal compartments, whereas the fusion model identifies Lyst as a negative regulator of fusion between lysosomal vesicles. Here, we used assays that can distinguish between defects in vesicle fusion versus fission. We compared the phenotype of Dictyostelium discoideum cells defective in LvsB, the ortholog of Lyst, with that of two known fission defect mutants (mu3- and WASH-null mutants). We found that the temporal localization characteristics of the post-lysosomal marker vacuolin, as well as vesicular acidity and the fusion dynamics of LvsB-null cells are distinct from those of both mu3- and WASH-null fission defect mutants. These distinctions are predicted by the fusion defect model and implicate LvsB as a negative regulator of vesicle fusion.

Espinosa, A. and Y. M.-C. G. Paz (2014). "Evidence of Taxa-, Clone-, and Kin-discrimination in Protists: Ecological and Evolutionary Implications."  28(6): 1019-1029.
	Unicellular eukaryotes, or protists, are among the most ancient organisms on Earth. Protists belong to multiple taxonomic groups; they are widely distributed geographically and in all environments. Their ability to discriminate among con- and heterospecifics has been documented during the past decade. Here we discuss exemplar cases of taxa-, clone-, and possible kin-discrimination in five major lineages: Mycetozoa (Dictyostelium, Polysphondylium), Dikarya (Saccharomyces), Ciliophora (Tetrahymena), Apicomplexa (Plasmodium) and Archamoebae (Entamoeba). We summarize the proposed genetic mechanisms involved in discrimination-mediated aggregation (self versus different), including the csA, FLO and trg (formerly lag) genes, and the Proliferation Activation Factors (PAFs), which facilitate clustering in some protistan taxa. We caution about the experimental challenges intrinsic to studying recognition in protists, and highlight the opportunities for exploring the ecology and evolution of complex forms of cell-cell communication, including social behavior, in a polyphyletic, still superficially understood group of organisms. Because unicellular eukaryotes are the evolutionary precursors of multicellular life, we infer that their mechanisms of taxa-, clone-, and possible kin-discrimination gave origin to the complex diversification and sophistication of traits associated with species and kin recognition in plants, fungi, invertebrates and vertebrates.

Dubravcic, D., et al. (2014). "An evolutionarily significant unicellular strategy in response to starvation stress in Dictyostelium social amoebae." F1000Res 3: 133.
	The social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum is widely studied for its multicellular development program as a response to starvation and constitutes a model of choice in microbial cooperation studies. Aggregates of up to 10 (6) cells form fruiting bodies containing two cell types: (i) dormant spores (~80%) that can persist for months in the absence of nutrients, and (ii) dead stalk cells (~20%) that promote the dispersion of the spores towards nutrient-rich areas. It is often overlooked that not all cells aggregate upon starvation. Using a new quantitative approach based on time-lapse fluorescence microscopy and a low ratio of reporting cells, we have quantified this fraction of non-aggregating cells. In realistic starvation conditions, up to 15% of cells do not aggregate, which makes this third cell fate a significant component of the population-level response of social amoebae to starvation. Non-aggregating cells have an advantage over cells in aggregates since they resume growth earlier upon arrival of new nutrients, but have a shorter lifespan under prolonged starvation. We find that phenotypic heterogeneities linked to cell nutritional state bias the representation of cells in the aggregating vs. non-aggregating fractions, and thus regulate population partitioning. Next, we report that the fraction of non-aggregating cells depends on genetic factors that regulate the timing of starvation, signal sensing efficiency and aggregation efficiency. In addition, interactions between clones in mixtures of non-isogenic cells affect the partitioning of each clone into both fractions. We further test the evolutionary significance of the non-aggregating cell fraction. The partitioning of cells into aggregating and non-aggregating fractions is optimal in fluctuating environments with an unpredictable duration of starvation periods. D. discoideum thus constitutes a model system lying at the intersection of microbial cooperation and bet hedging, defining a new frontier in microbiology and evolution studies.

Du, X., et al. (2014). "Dictyostelium discoideum Dgat2 can substitute for the essential function of Dgat1 in triglyceride production but not in ether lipid synthesis." Eukaryot Cell 13(4): 517-526.
	Triacylglycerol (TAG), the common energy storage molecule, is formed from diacylglycerol and a coenzyme A-activated fatty acid by the action of an acyl coenzyme A:diacylglycerol acyltransferase (DGAT). In order to conduct this step, most organisms rely on more than one enzyme. The two main candidates in Dictyostelium discoideum are Dgat1 and Dgat2. We show, by creating single and double knockout mutants, that the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-localized Dgat1 enzyme provides the predominant activity, whereas the lipid droplet constituent Dgat2 contributes less activity. This situation may be opposite from what is seen in mammalian cells. Dictyostelium Dgat2 is specialized for the synthesis of TAG, as is the mammalian enzyme. In contrast, mammalian DGAT1 is more promiscuous regarding its substrates, producing diacylglycerol, retinyl esters, and waxes in addition to TAG. The Dictyostelium Dgat1, however, produces TAG, wax esters, and, most interestingly, also neutral ether lipids, which represent a significant constituent of lipid droplets. Ether lipids had also been found in mammalian lipid droplets, but the role of DGAT1 in their synthesis was unknown. The ability to form TAG through either Dgat1 or Dgat2 activity is essential for Dictyostelium to grow on bacteria, its natural food substrate.

Du, Q., et al. (2014). "The cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase RegA critically regulates encystation in social and pathogenic amoebas." Cell Signal 26(2): 453-459.
	Amoebas survive environmental stress by differentiating into encapsulated cysts. As cysts, pathogenic amoebas resist antibiotics, which particularly counteracts treatment of vision-destroying Acanthamoeba keratitis. Limited genetic tractability of amoeba pathogens has left their encystation mechanisms unexplored. The social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum forms spores in multicellular fruiting bodies to survive starvation, while other dictyostelids, such as Polysphondylium pallidum can additionally encyst as single cells. Sporulation is induced by cAMP acting on PKA, with the cAMP phosphodiesterase RegA critically regulating cAMP levels. We show here that RegA is deeply conserved in social and pathogenic amoebas and that deletion of the RegA gene in P. pallidum causes precocious encystation and prevents cyst germination. We heterologously expressed and characterized Acanthamoeba RegA and performed a compound screen to identify RegA inhibitors. Two effective inhibitors increased cAMP levels and triggered Acanthamoeba encystation. Our results show that RegA critically regulates Amoebozoan encystation and that components of the cAMP signalling pathway could be effective targets for therapeutic intervention with encystation.

Du, Q. and P. Schaap (2014). "The Social Amoeba Polysphondylium pallidum Loses Encystation and Sporulation, but Can Still Erect Fruiting Bodies in the Absence of Cellulose." Protist 165(5): 569-579.
	Amoebas and other freely moving protists differentiate into walled cysts when exposed to stress. As cysts, amoeba pathogens are resistant to biocides, preventing treatment and eradication. Lack of gene modification procedures has left the mechanisms of encystation largely unexplored. Genetically tractable Dictyostelium discoideum amoebas require cellulose synthase for formation of multicellular fructifications with cellulose-rich stalk and spore cells. Amoebas of its distant relative Polysphondylium pallidum (Ppal), can additionally encyst individually in response to stress. Ppal has two cellulose synthase genes, DcsA and DcsB, which we deleted individually and in combination. Dcsa- mutants formed fruiting bodies with normal stalks, but their spore and cyst walls lacked cellulose, which obliterated stress-resistance of spores and rendered cysts entirely non-viable. A dcsa-/dcsb- mutant made no walled spores, stalk cells or cysts, although simple fruiting structures were formed with a droplet of amoeboid cells resting on an sheathed column of decaying cells. DcsB is expressed in prestalk and stalk cells, while DcsA is additionally expressed in spores and cysts. We conclude that cellulose is essential for encystation and that cellulose synthase may be a suitable target for drugs to prevent encystation and render amoeba pathogens susceptible to conventional antibiotics.

Droge, J., et al. (2014). "Amoebozoa possess lineage-specific globin gene repertoires gained by individual horizontal gene transfers." Int J Biol Sci 10(7): 689-701.
	The Amoebozoa represent a clade of unicellular amoeboid organisms that display a wide variety of lifestyles, including free-living and parasitic species. For example, the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum has the ability to aggregate into a multicellular fruiting body upon starvation, while the pathogenic amoeba Entamoeba histolytica is a parasite of humans. Globins are small heme proteins that are present in almost all extant organisms. Although several genomes of amoebozoan species have been sequenced, little is known about the phyletic distribution of globin genes within this phylum. Only two flavohemoglobins (FHbs) of D. discoideum have been reported and characterized previously while the genomes of Entamoeba species are apparently devoid of globin genes. We investigated eleven amoebozoan species for the presence of globin genes by genomic and phylogenetic in silico analyses. Additional FHb genes were identified in the genomes of four social amoebas and the true slime mold Physarum polycephalum. Moreover, a single-domain globin (SDFgb) of Hartmannella vermiformis, as well as two truncated hemoglobins (trHbs) of Acanthamoeba castellanii were identified. Phylogenetic evidence suggests that these globin genes were independently acquired via horizontal gene transfer from some ancestral bacteria. Furthermore, the phylogenetic tree of amoebozoan FHbs indicates that they do not share a common ancestry and that a transfer of FHbs from bacteria to amoeba occurred multiple times.

Driscoll, M. K., et al. (2014). "Cellular contact guidance through dynamic sensing of nanotopography." ACS Nano 8(4): 3546-3555.
	We investigate the effects of surface nanotopography on the migration and cell shape dynamics of the amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum. Multiple prior studies have implicated the patterning of focal adhesions in contact guidance. However, we observe significant contact guidance of Dictyostelium along surfaces with nanoscale ridges or grooves, even though this organism lacks integrin-based adhesions. Cells that move parallel to nanoridges are faster, more protrusive at their fronts, and more elongated than are cells that move perpendicular to nanoridges. Quantitative studies show that nanoridges spaced 1.5 mum apart exhibit the greatest contact guidance efficiency. Because Dictyostelium cells exhibit oscillatory shape dynamics, we model contact guidance as a process in which stochastic cellular harmonic oscillators couple to the periodicity of the nanoridges. In support of this connection, we find that nanoridges nucleate actin polymerization waves of nanoscale width that propagate parallel to the nanoridges.

Dolinsky, S., et al. (2014). "The Legionella longbeachae Icm/Dot substrate SidC selectively binds phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate with nanomolar affinity and promotes pathogen vacuole-endoplasmic reticulum interactions." Infect Immun 82(10): 4021-4033.
	Legionella spp. cause the severe pneumonia Legionnaires' disease. The environmental bacteria replicate intracellularly in free-living amoebae and human alveolar macrophages within a distinct, endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-derived compartment termed the Legionella-containing vacuole (LCV). LCV formation requires the bacterial Icm/Dot type IV secretion system (T4SS) that translocates into host cells a plethora of different "effector" proteins, some of which anchor to the pathogen vacuole by binding to phosphoinositide (PI) lipids. Here, we identified by unbiased pulldown assays in Legionella longbeachae lysates a 111-kDa SidC homologue as the major phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate [PtdIns(4)P]-binding protein. The PI-binding domain was mapped to a 20-kDa P4C [PtdIns(4)P binding of SidC] fragment. Isothermal titration calorimetry revealed that SidC of L. longbeachae (SidC(Llo)) binds PtdIns(4)P with a K(d) (dissociation constant) of 71 nM, which is 3 to 4 times lower than that of the SidC orthologue of Legionella pneumophila (SidC(Lpn)). Upon infection of RAW 264.7 macrophages with L. longbeachae, endogenous SidC(Llo) or ectopically produced SidC(Lpn) localized in an Icm/Dot-dependent manner to the PtdIns(4)P-positive LCVs. An L. longbeachae DeltasidC deletion mutant was impaired for calnexin recruitment to LCVs in Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae and outcompeted by wild-type bacteria in Acanthamoeba castellanii. Calnexin recruitment was restored by SidC(Llo) or its orthologues SidC(Lpn) and SdcA(Lpn). Conversely, calnexin recruitment was restored by SidC(Llo) in L. pneumophila lacking sidC and sdcA. Together, biochemical, genetic, and cell biological data indicate that SidC(Llo) is an L. longbeachae effector that binds through a P4C domain with high affinity to PtdIns(4)P on LCVs, promotes ER recruitment to the LCV, and thus plays a role in pathogen-host interactions.

DiSalvo, S., et al. (2014). "In the social amoeba, Dictyostelium discoideum , density, not farming status, determines predatory success on unpalatable Escherichia coli." BMC Microbiol 14(1): 328.
	BackgroundThe social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum interacts with bacteria in a variety of ways. It is a predator of bacteria, can be infected or harmed by bacteria, and can form symbiotic associations with bacteria. Some clones of D. discoideum function as primitive farmers because they carry bacteria through the normally sterile D. discoideum social stage, then release them after dispersal so the bacteria can proliferate and be harvested. Some farmer-associated bacteria produce small molecules that promote host farmer growth but inhibit the growth of non-farmer competitors. To test whether the farmers inverted question mark tolerance is specific or extends to other growth inhibitory bacteria, we tested whether farmer and non-farmer amoebae are differentially affected by E. coli strains of varying pathogenicity. Because the numbers of each organism may influence the outcome of amoeba-bacteria interactions, we also examined the influence of amoeba and bacteria density on the ability of D. discoideum to grow and develop on distinct bacterial strains.ResultsA subset of E. coli strains did not support amoeba proliferation on rich medium, independent of whether the amoebae were farmers or non-farmers. However, amoebae could proliferate on these strains if amoebae numbers are high relative to bacteria numbers, but again there was no difference in this ability between farmer and non-farmer clones of D. discoideum.ConclusionsOur results show that farmer and non-farmers did not differ in their abilities to consume novel strains of E. coli, suggesting that farmer resistance to their own carried bacteria does not extend to foreign bacteria. We see that increasing the numbers of bacteria or amoebae increases their respective likelihood of competitive victory over the other, thus showing Allee effects. We hypothesize that higher bacteria numbers may result in higher concentrations of a toxic product or in a reduction of resources critical for amoeba survival, producing an environment inhospitable to amoeba predators. Greater amoeba numbers may counter this growth inhibition, possibly through reducing bacterial numbers via increased predation rates, or by producing something that neutralizes a potentially toxic bacterial product.

DeBord, J. D., et al. (2014). "Secondary ion mass spectrometry imaging of Dictyostelium discoideum aggregation streams." PLoS One 9(6): e99319.
	High resolution imaging mass spectrometry could become a valuable tool for cell and developmental biology, but both, high spatial and mass spectral resolution are needed to enable this. In this report, we employed Bi3 bombardment time-of-flight (Bi3 ToF-SIMS) and C60 bombardment Fourier transform ion cyclotron resonance secondary ion mass spectrometry (C60 FTICR-SIMS) to image Dictyostelium discoideum aggregation streams. Nearly 300 lipid species were identified from the aggregation streams. High resolution mass spectrometry imaging (FTICR-SIMS) enabled the generation of multiple molecular ion maps at the nominal mass level and provided good coverage for fatty acyls, prenol lipids, and sterol lipids. The comparison of Bi3 ToF-SIMS and C60 FTICR-SIMS suggested that while the first provides fast, high spatial resolution molecular ion images, the chemical complexity of biological samples warrants the use of high resolution analyzers for accurate ion identification.

Cunliffe, V. T., et al. (2014). "Epilepsy research methods update: Understanding the causes of epileptic seizures and identifying new treatments using non-mammalian model organisms." Seizure.
	This narrative review is intended to introduce clinicians treating epilepsy and researchers familiar with mammalian models of epilepsy to experimentally tractable, non-mammalian research models used in epilepsy research, ranging from unicellular eukaryotes to more complex multicellular organisms. The review focuses on four model organisms: the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum, the roundworm Caenorhabditis elegans, the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster and the zebrafish Danio rerio. We consider recent discoveries made with each model organism and discuss the importance of these advances for the understanding and treatment of epilepsy in humans. The relative ease with which mutations in genes of interest can be produced and studied quickly and cheaply in these organisms, together with their anatomical and physiological simplicity in comparison to mammalian species, are major advantages when researchers are trying to unravel complex disease mechanisms. The short generation times of most of these model organisms also mean that they lend themselves particularly conveniently to the investigation of drug effects or epileptogenic processes across the lifecourse.

Cosson, P. and W. C. Lima (2014). "Intracellular killing of bacteria: is Dictyostelium a model macrophage or an alien?" Cell Microbiol 16(6): 816-823.
	Predation of bacteria by phagocytic cells was first developed during evolution by environmental amoebae. Many of the core mechanisms used by amoebae to sense, ingest and kill bacteria have also been conserved in specialized phagocytic cells in mammalian organisms. Here we focus on recent results revealing how Dictyostelium discoideum senses and kills non-pathogenic bacteria. In this model, genetic analysis of intracellular killing of bacteria has revealed a surprisingly complex array of specialized mechanisms. These results raise new questions on these processes, and challenge current models based largely on studies in mammalian phagocytes. In addition, recent studies suggest one additional level on complexity by revealing how Dictyostelium recognizes specifically various bacterial species and strains, and adapts its metabolism to process them. It remains to be seen to what extent mechanisms uncovered in Dictyostelium are also used in mammalian phagocytic cells.

Corrigan, A. M. and J. R. Chubb (2014). "Regulation of transcriptional bursting by a naturally oscillating signal." Curr Biol 24(2): 205-211.
	Transcription is highly stochastic, occurring in irregular bursts. For temporal and spatial precision of gene expression, cells must somehow deal with this noisy behavior. To address how this is achieved, we investigated how transcriptional bursting is entrained by a naturally oscillating signal, by direct measurement of transcription together with signal dynamics in living cells. We identify a Dictyostelium gene showing rapid transcriptional oscillations with the same period as extracellular cAMP signaling waves. Bursting approaches antiphase to cAMP waves, with accelerating transcription cycles during differentiation. Although coupling between signal and transcription oscillations was clear at the population level, single-cell transcriptional bursts retained considerable heterogeneity, indicating that transcription is not governed solely by signaling frequency. Previous studies implied that burst heterogeneity reflects distinct chromatin states. Here we show that heterogeneity is determined by multiple intrinsic and extrinsic cues and is maintained by a transcriptional persistence. Unusually for a persistent transcriptional behavior, the lifetime was only 20 min, with rapid randomization of transcriptional state by the response to oscillatory signaling. Linking transcription to rapid signaling oscillations allows reduction of gene expression heterogeneity by temporal averaging, providing a mechanism to generate precision in cell choices during development.

Clark, J., et al. (2014). "Dictyostelium uses ether-linked inositol phospholipids for intracellular signalling." Embo j 33(19): 2188-2200.
	Inositol phospholipids are critical regulators of membrane biology throughout eukaryotes. The general principle by which they perform these roles is conserved across species and involves binding of differentially phosphorylated inositol head groups to specific protein domains. This interaction serves to both recruit and regulate the activity of several different classes of protein which act on membrane surfaces. In mammalian cells, these phosphorylated inositol head groups are predominantly borne by a C38:4 diacylglycerol backbone. We show here that the inositol phospholipids of Dictyostelium are different, being highly enriched in an unusual C34:1e lipid backbone, 1-hexadecyl-2-(11Z-octadecenoyl)-sn-glycero-3-phospho-(1'-myo-inositol), in which the sn-1 position contains an ether-linked C16:0 chain; they are thus plasmanylinositols. These plasmanylinositols respond acutely to stimulation of cells with chemoattractants, and their levels are regulated by PIPKs, PI3Ks and PTEN. In mammals and now in Dictyostelium, the hydrocarbon chains of inositol phospholipids are a highly selected subset of those available to other phospholipids, suggesting that different molecular selectors are at play in these organisms but serve a common, evolutionarily conserved purpose.

Civiero, L., et al. (2014). "Genetic, structural, and molecular insights into the function of ras of complex proteins domains." Chem Biol 21(7): 809-818.
	Ras of complex proteins (ROC) domains were identified in 2003 as GTP binding modules in large multidomain proteins from Dictyostelium discoideum. Research into the function of these domains exploded with their identification in a number of proteins linked to human disease, including leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) and death-associated protein kinase 1 (DAPK1) in Parkinson's disease and cancer, respectively. This surge in research has resulted in a growing body of data revealing the role that ROC domains play in regulating protein function and signaling pathways. In this review, recent advances in the structural information available for proteins containing ROC domains, along with insights into enzymatic function and the integration of ROC domains as molecular switches in a cellular and organismal context, are explored.

Chida, J., et al. (2014). "Specific growth suppression of human cancer cells by targeted delivery of Dictyostelium mitochondrial ribosomal protein S4." Cancer Cell Int 14: 56.
	BACKGROUND: In general, growth and differentiation are mutually exclusive but are cooperatively regulated throughout development. Thus, the process of a cell's switching from growth to differentiation is of great importance not only for the development of organisms but also for malignant transformation, in which this process is reversed. We have previously demonstrated using a Dictyostelium model system that the Dictyostelium mitochondrial ribosomal protein S4 (Dd-mrp4) gene expression is essential for the initiation of cell differentiation: Dd-mrp4-null cells fail to initiate differentiation, while the initial step of cell differentiation and the subsequent morphogenesis are markedly enhanced in mrp4 (OE) cells overexpressing the Dd-mrp4 in the extramitochondrial cytoplasm. This raised a possibility that the ectopically enforced expression of the Dd-mrp4 in human cells might inhibit their growth, particularly of malignant tumor cells, by inducing cell differentiation. METHODS: FOUR KINDS OF HUMAN TUMOR CELL LINES WERE TRANSFECTED BY THREE KIND OF VECTOR CONSTRUCTS (THE EMPTY VECTOR: pcDNA3.1 (Mock); pcDNA3.1-rps4 bearing Dictyostelium cytoplasmic ribosomal protein S4; pcDNA3.1-mrp4 bearing Dictyostelium mitochondrial ribosomal protein S4). As controls, four kinds of human primary cultured cells were similarly transfected by the above vector constructs. After transfection, growth kinetics of cells was analyzed using cell viability assay, and also the TUNEL method was used for evaluation of apoptotic cells. RESULTS: Ectopically expressed Dd-mrp4 suppressed cell proliferation through inducing apoptotic cell death specifically in the human lung adenocarcinoma (A549), epithelial cervical cancer (HeLa), hepatocellular carcinoma (HepG2) and colonic carcinoma (Caco-2), but not in primary cultured normal cells, such as human brain microvascular endothelial cells (HBMECs); human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) and human normal hepatocytes (hHeps), with one exception (human cardiac fibloblasts (HCF)). CONCLUSION: The present finding that the ectopically enforced expression of Dd-mrp4 in human several tumor cell lines specifically suppresses their proliferation suggests strongly that the Dd-mrp4 gene derived from Dictyostelium mitochondria may provide a new promising therapeutic strategy for disrupting cell viability pathways in human cancers.

Chen, Z. H., et al. (2014). "A cyanobacterial light activated adenylyl cyclase partially restores development of a Dictyostelium discoideum, adenylyl cyclase a null mutant." J Biotechnol 191: 246-249.
	A light-regulated adenylyl cyclase, mPAC, was previously identified from the cyanobacterium Microcoleus chthonoplastes PCC7420. MPAC consists of a flavin-based blue light-sensing LOV domain and a catalytic domain. In this work, we expressed mPAC in an adenylate cyclase A null mutant (aca-) of the eukaryote Dictyostelium discoideum and tested to what extent light activation of mPAC could restore the cAMP-dependent developmental programme of this organism. Amoebas of Dictyostelium, a well-established model organism, generate and respond to cAMP pulses, which cause them to aggregate and construct fruiting bodies. mPAC was expressed under control of a constitutive actin-15 promoter in D. discoideum and displayed low basal adenylyl cyclase activity in darkness that was about five-fold stimulated by blue light. mPAC expression in aca- cells marginally restored aggregation and fruiting body formation in darkness. However, more and larger fruiting bodies were formed when mPAC expressing cells were incubated in light. Extending former applications of light-regulated AC, these results demonstrate that mPAC can be used to manipulate multicellular development in eukaryotes in a light dependent manner.

Chen, S., et al. (2014). "Intrinsic fluctuations of cell migration under different cellular densities." Soft Matter 10(19): 3421-3425.
	The motility of the Dictyostelium discoideum (DD) cell is studied by video microscopy when the cells are plated on top of an agar plate at different densities, n. It is found that the fluctuating kinetics of the cells can be divided into two normal directions: the cell's forward-moving direction and its normal direction. Along the forward-moving direction, the slope of the amplitude of fluctuation vs. velocity (R||(v)) increases with n, while along the normal direction the slope of R perpendicular is independent of n. Both R|| and R perpendicular are functions of the cell speed v. The observed linearity in R perpendicular(v) indicated that the amplitude of orientational fluctuation (kappa) of DD cells is a constant independent of v. The independence of the slope of R perpendicular(v) on n indicated that kappa is also not affected by cellular interactions. The independence of kappa on both v and n suggests that orientational fluctuation originates from the intrinsic property of motion fluctuations in DD.

Chen, G., et al. (2014). "Assembly of the TgrB1-TgrC1 cell adhesion complex during Dictyostelium discoideum development." Biochem J 459(2): 241-249.
	In Dictyostelium discoideum, TgrB1 and TgrC1 are partners of a heterophilic cell-adhesion system. To investigate its assembly process, the split GFP complementation assay was used to track the oligomeric status of both proteins. The ability of TgrC1 to form cis-homodimers spontaneously was demonstrated by fluorescence complementation studies and confirmed by chemical cross-linking. In contrast, TgrB1 failed to form cis-homodimers in the absence of TgrC1. Treatment of cell aggregates with antibodies against TgrB1 or TgrC1 did not affect TgrC1 dimerization, but inhibited TgrB1 dimer formation, suggesting that TgrB1 cis-homodimerization is dependent on trans-interaction with TgrC1. When TgrB1 and TgrC1 conjugated with the complementary halves of GFP were co-expressed in cells, cis-heterodimers were not detected. However, weak FRET signals were detected in cells expressing TgrB1-RFP and TgrC1-GFP, suggesting that TgrB1 dimers and TgrC1 dimers were arranged juxtapose to each other in the adhesion complex. The results of the present study suggest that the assembly process is initiated upon trans-interaction of monomeric TgrB1 with TgrC1 homodimers on adjacent cells, which triggers the formation of TgrB1 dimers. The homodimerization of TgrB1 in turn induces the clustering of TgrB1 and TgrC1, and the coalescence of TgrB1-TgrC1 clusters results in the formation of large adhesion complexes.

Chattwood, A., et al. (2014). "RasG signaling is important for optimal folate chemotaxis in Dictyostelium." BMC Cell Biol 15: 13.
	BACKGROUND: Signaling pathways linking receptor activation to actin reorganization and pseudopod dynamics during chemotaxis are arranged in complex networks. Dictyostelium discoideum has proven to be an excellent model system for studying these networks and a body of evidence has indicated that RasG and RasC, members of the Ras GTPase subfamily function as key chemotaxis regulators. However, recent evidence has been presented indicating that Ras signaling is not important for Dictyostelium chemotaxis. In this study, we have reexamined the role of Ras proteins in folate chemotaxis and then, having re-established the importance of Ras for this process, identified the parts of the RasG protein molecule that are involved. RESULTS: A direct comparison of folate chemotaxis methodologies revealed that rasG-C- cells grown in association with a bacterial food source were capable of positive chemotaxis, only when their initial position was comparatively close to the folate source. In contrast, cells grown in axenic medium orientate randomly regardless of their distance to the micropipette. Folate chemotaxis is restored in rasG-C- cells by exogenous expression of protein chimeras containing either N- or C- terminal halves of the RasG protein. CONCLUSIONS: Conflicting data regarding the importance of Ras to Dictyostelium chemotaxis were the result of differing experimental methodologies. Both axenic and bacterially grown cells require RasG for optimal folate chemotaxis, particularly in weak gradients. In strong gradients, the requirement for RasG is relaxed, but only in bacterially grown cells. Both N- and C- terminal portions of the RasG protein are important for folate chemotaxis, suggesting that there are functionally important amino acids outside the well established switch I and switch II interaction surfaces.

Catalano, A. and D. H. O'Day (2014). "Evidence for nucleolar subcompartments in Dictyostelium." Biochem Biophys Res Commun.
	The nucleolus is a multifunctional nuclear compartment usually consisting of two to three subcompartments which represent stages of ribosomal biogenesis. It is linked to several human diseases including viral infections, cancer, and neurodegeneration. Dictyostelium is a model eukaryote for the study of fundamental biological processes as well as several human diseases however comparatively little is known about its nucleolus. Unlike most nucleoli it does not possess visible subcompartments at the ultrastructural level. Several recently identified nucleolar proteins in Dictyostelium leave the nucleolus after treatment with the rDNA transcription inhibitor actinomycin-D (AM-D). Different proteins exit in different ways, suggesting that previously unidentified nucleolar subcompartments may exist. The identification of nucleolar subcompartments would help to better understand the nucleolus in this model eukaryote. Here, we show that Dictyostelium nucleolar proteins nucleomorphin isoform NumA1 and Bud31 localize throughout the entire nucleolus while calcium-binding protein 4a localizes to only a portion, representing nucleolar subcompartment 1 (NoSC1). SWI/SNF complex member Snf12 localizes to a smaller area within NoSC1 representing a second nucleolar subcompartment, NoSC2. The nuclear/nucleolar localization signal KRKR from Snf12 localized GFP to NoSC2, and thus also appears to function as a nucleolar subcompartment localization signal. FhkA localizes to the nucleolar periphery displaying a similar pattern to that of Hsp32. Similarities between the redistribution patterns of Dictyostelium nucleolar proteins during nucleolar disruption as a result of either AM-D treatment or mitosis support these subcompartments. A model for the AM-D-induced redistribution patterns is proposed.

Cao, X., et al. (2014). "Arrestins function in cAR1 GPCR-mediated signaling and cAR1 internalization in the development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol Biol Cell 25(20): 3210-3221.
	Oscillation of chemical signals is a common biological phenomenon, but its regulation is poorly understood. At the aggregation stage of Dictyostelium discoideum development, the chemoattractant cAMP is synthesized and released at 6-min intervals, directing cell migration. Although the G protein-coupled cAMP receptor cAR1 and ERK2 are both implicated in regulating the oscillation, the signaling circuit remains unknown. Here we report that D. discoideum arrestins regulate the frequency of cAMP oscillation and may link cAR1 signaling to oscillatory ERK2 activity. Cells lacking arrestins (adcB(-)C(-)) display cAMP oscillations during the aggregation stage that are twice as frequent as for wild- type cells. The adcB(-)C(-) cells also have a shorter period of transient ERK2 activity and precociously reactivate ERK2 in response to cAMP stimulation. We show that arrestin domain-containing protein C (AdcC) associates with ERK2 and that activation of cAR1 promotes the transient membrane recruitment of AdcC and interaction with cAR1, indicating that arrestins function in cAR1-controlled periodic ERK2 activation and oscillatory cAMP signaling in the aggregation stage of D. discoideum development. In addition, ligand-induced cAR1 internalization is compromised in adcB(-)C(-) cells, suggesting that arrestins are involved in elimination of high-affinity cAR1 receptors from cell surface after the aggregation stage of multicellular development.

Cao, L., et al. (2014). "Phylogenetic analysis of CDK and cyclin proteins in premetazoan lineages." BMC Evol Biol 14: 10.
	BACKGROUND: The molecular history of animal evolution from single-celled ancestors remains a major question in biology, and little is known regarding the evolution of cell cycle regulation during animal emergence. In this study, we conducted a comprehensive evolutionary analysis of CDK and cyclin proteins in metazoans and their unicellular relatives. RESULTS: Our analysis divided the CDK family into eight subfamilies. Seven subfamilies (CDK1/2/3, CDK5, CDK7, CDK 20, CDK8/19, CDK9, and CDK10/11) are conserved in metazoans and fungi, with the remaining subfamily, CDK4/6, found only in eumetazoans. With respect to cyclins, cyclin C, H, L, Y subfamilies, and cyclin K and T as a whole subfamily, are generally conserved in animal, fungi, and amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum. In contrast, cyclin subfamilies B, A, E, and D, which are cell cycle-related, have distinct evolutionary histories. The cyclin B subfamily is generally conserved in D. discoideum, fungi, and animals, whereas cyclin A and E subfamilies are both present in animals and their unicellular relatives such as choanoflagellate Monosiga brevicollis and filasterean Capsaspora owczarzaki, but are absent in fungi and D. discoideum. Although absent in fungi and D. discoideum, cyclin D subfamily orthologs can be found in the early-emerging, non-opisthokont apusozoan Thecamonas trahens. Within opisthokonta, the cyclin D subfamily is conserved only in eumetazoans, and is absent in fungi, choanoflagellates, and the basal metazoan Amphimedon queenslandica. CONCLUSIONS: Our data indicate that the CDK4/6 subfamily and eumetazoans emerged simultaneously, with the evolutionary conservation of the cyclin D subfamily also tightly linked with eumetazoan appearance. Establishment of the CDK4/6-cyclin D complex may have been the key step in the evolution of cell cycle control during eumetazoan emergence.

Calvo-Garrido, J., et al. (2014). "Vmp1 regulates PtdIns3P signaling during autophagosome formation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Traffic 15(11): 1235-1246.
	Generation and turnover of phosphatidylinositol 3-phosphate (PtdIns3P) signaling is essential for autophagosome formation and other membrane traffic processes. In both Dictyostelium discoideum and mammalian cells, autophagosomes are formed from specialized regions of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), called omegasomes, which are enriched in the signaling lipid PtdIns3P. Vacuole membrane protein 1 (Vmp1) is a multispanning membrane protein localized at the ER that is required for autophagosome formation. There are conflicting reports in the literature as to whether Vmp1 is strictly required or not for autophagy-related PtdIns3P signaling and its hierarchical relationship with Atg1 and PI3K. We have now addressed these questions in the Dictyostelium model. We show that Dictyostelium cells lacking Vmp1 have elevated and aberrant PtdIns3P signaling on the ER, resulting in an increased and persistent recruitment of Atg18 and other autophagic proteins. This indicates that Vmp1 is not strictly essential for the generation of PtdIns3P signaling but rather suggests a role in the correct turnover or modulation of this signaling. Of interest, these PtdIns3P-enriched regions of the ER surround ubiquitinated protein aggregates but are unable to form functional autophagosomes. vmp1 null cells also have additional defects in macropinocytosis and growth, which are not shared by other autophagy mutants. Remarkably, we show that these defects and also the aberrant PtdIns3P distribution are largely suppressed by the concomitant loss of Atg1, indicating that aberrant autophagic signaling on the ER inhibits macropinocytosis. These results suggest that Atg1 functions upstream of Vmp1 in this signaling pathway and demonstrates a previously unappreciated link between abnormal autophagy signaling and macropinocytosis.

Cai, H., et al. (2014). "Nucleocytoplasmic shuttling of a GATA transcription factor functions as a development timer." Science 343(6177): 1249531.
	Biological oscillations are observed at many levels of cellular organization. In the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum, starvation-triggered multicellular development is organized by periodic cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate (cAMP) waves, which provide both chemoattractant gradients and developmental signals. We report that GtaC, a GATA transcription factor, exhibits rapid nucleocytoplasmic shuttling in response to cAMP waves. This behavior requires coordinated action of a nuclear localization signal and reversible G protein (heterotrimeric guanine nucleotide-binding protein)-coupled receptor-mediated phosphorylation. Although both are required for developmental gene expression, receptor occupancy promotes nuclear exit of GtaC, which leads to a transient burst of transcription at each cAMP cycle. We demonstrate that this biological circuit filters out high-frequency signals and counts those admitted, thereby enabling cells to modulate gene expression according to the dynamic pattern of the external stimuli.

Brzeska, H., et al. (2014). "The association of myosin IB with actin waves in dictyostelium requires both the plasma membrane-binding site and actin-binding region in the myosin tail." PLoS One 9(4): e94306.
	F-actin structures and their distribution are important determinants of the dynamic shapes and functions of eukaryotic cells. Actin waves are F-actin formations that move along the ventral cell membrane driven by actin polymerization. Dictyostelium myosin IB is associated with actin waves but its role in the wave is unknown. Myosin IB is a monomeric, non-filamentous myosin with a globular head that binds to F-actin and has motor activity, and a non-helical tail comprising a basic region, a glycine-proline-glutamine-rich region and an SH3-domain. The basic region binds to acidic phospholipids in the plasma membrane through a short basic-hydrophobic site and the Gly-Pro-Gln region binds F-actin. In the current work we found that both the basic-hydrophobic site in the basic region and the Gly-Pro-Gln region of the tail are required for the association of myosin IB with actin waves. This is the first evidence that the Gly-Pro-Gln region is required for localization of myosin IB to a specific actin structure in situ. The head is not required for myosin IB association with actin waves but binding of the head to F-actin strengthens the association of myosin IB with waves and stabilizes waves. Neither the SH3-domain nor motor activity is required for association of myosin IB with actin waves. We conclude that myosin IB contributes to anchoring actin waves to the plasma membranes by binding of the basic-hydrophobic site to acidic phospholipids in the plasma membrane and binding of the Gly-Pro-Gln region to F-actin in the wave.

Bracco, E. and B. Pergolizzi (2014). "Ras proteins signaling in the early metazoan Dictyostelium discoideum." Methods Mol Biol 1120: 407-420.
	Since the discovery of Ras, Ras-mediated transforming activity has been the major investigative area of interest. Soon thereafter it has emerged that Ras family members regulate different biological processes, other than cell growth, like development and fine-tune the balance between cell death and survival. The lower metazoan Dictyostelium discoideum is a powerful and genetically accessible model organism that has been used to elucidate the roles played by different Ras members in some biological processes, such as cell motility and development. In the following chapter we describe some very basic techniques aiming to identify novel Ras signaling components, throughout insertional mutagenesis screening, and to investigate their role(s) in development and chemotaxis processes.

Bonazzi, D. and N. Minc (2014). "Dissecting the Molecular Mechanisms of Electrotactic Effects." Adv Wound Care (New Rochelle) 3(2): 139-148.
	Significance: Steady electric fields (EFs) surround cells and tissues in vivo and may regulate cellular behavior during development, wound healing, or tissue regeneration. Application of exogenous EFs of similar magnitude as those found in vivo can direct migration, growth, and division in most cell types, ranging from bacteria to mammalian cells. These EF effects have therapeutic potential, for instance, in accelerating wound healing or improving nerve repair. EFs are thought to signal through the plasma membrane to locally activate or recruit components of the cytoskeleton and the polarity machinery. How EFs might function to steer polarity is, however, poorly understood at a molecular level. Recent Advances: Here, we review recent work introducing genetically tractable systems, such as yeast and Dictyostelium cells, that begin to identify proteins and pathways involved in this response both at the level of ion transport at the membrane and at the level of cytoskeleton regulation. Critical Issues: These studies highlight the complexity of these EF effects and bring important novel views on core polarity regulation. Future Directions: Future work pursuing initial screening in model organisms should generate broad mechanistic understanding of electrotactic effects.

Boesler, B., et al. (2014). "Argonaute Proteins Affect siRNA Levels and Accumulation of a Novel Extrachromosomal DNA from the Dictyostelium Retrotransposon DIRS-1." J Biol Chem 289(51): 35124-35138.
	The retrotransposon DIRS-1 is the most abundant retroelement in Dictyostelium discoideum and constitutes the pericentromeric heterochromatin of the six chromosomes in D. discoideum. The vast majority of cellular siRNAs is derived from DIRS-1, suggesting that the element is controlled by RNAi-related mechanisms. We investigated the role of two of the five Argonaute proteins of D. discoideum, AgnA and AgnB, in DIRS-1 silencing. Deletion of agnA resulted in the accumulation of DIRS-1 transcripts, the expression of DIRS-1-encoded proteins, and the loss of most DIRS-1-derived secondary siRNAs. Simultaneously, extrachromosomal single-stranded DIRS-1 DNA accumulated in the cytoplasm of agnA- strains. These DNA molecules appear to be products of reverse transcription and thus could represent intermediate structures before transposition. We further show that transitivity of endogenous siRNAs is impaired in agnA- strains. The deletion of agnB alone had no strong effect on DIRS-1 transposon regulation. However, in agnA-/agnB- double mutant strains strongly reduced accumulation of extrachromosomal DNA compared with the single agnA- strains was observed.

Bastounis, E., et al. (2014). "Both contractile axial and lateral traction force dynamics drive amoeboid cell motility." J Cell Biol 204(6): 1045-1061.
	Chemotaxing Dictyostelium discoideum cells adapt their morphology and migration speed in response to intrinsic and extrinsic cues. Using Fourier traction force microscopy, we measured the spatiotemporal evolution of shape and traction stresses and constructed traction tension kymographs to analyze cell motility as a function of the dynamics of the cell's mechanically active traction adhesions. We show that wild-type cells migrate in a step-wise fashion, mainly forming stationary traction adhesions along their anterior-posterior axes and exerting strong contractile axial forces. We demonstrate that lateral forces are also important for motility, especially for migration on highly adhesive substrates. Analysis of two mutant strains lacking distinct actin cross-linkers (mhcA(-) and abp120(-) cells) on normal and highly adhesive substrates supports a key role for lateral contractions in amoeboid cell motility, whereas the differences in their traction adhesion dynamics suggest that these two strains use distinct mechanisms to achieve migration. Finally, we provide evidence that the above patterns of migration may be conserved in mammalian amoeboid cells.

Barak, P., et al. (2014). "Reconstitution of microtubule-dependent organelle transport." Methods Enzymol 540: 231-248.
	Microtubule (MT)-based motor proteins transport many cellular factors to their functionally relevant locations within cells, and defects in transport are linked to human disease. Understanding the mechanism and regulation of this transport process in living cells is difficult because of the complex in vivo environment and limited means to manipulate the system. On the other hand, in vitro motility assays using purified motors attached to beads does not recapitulate the full complexity of cargo transport in vivo. Assaying motility of organelles in cell extracts is therefore attractive, as natural cargoes are being examined, but in an environment that is more amenable to manipulation. Here, we describe the purification and in vitro MT-based motility of phagosomes from Dictyostelium and lipid droplets from rat liver. These assays have the potential to address diverse questions related to endosome/phagosome maturation, fatty acid regulation, and could also serve as a starting point for reconstituting the motility of other types of organelles.

Bakthavatsalam, D., et al. (2014). "A retinoblastoma orthologue is required for the sensing of a chalone in Dictyostelium discoideum." Eukaryot Cell 13(3): 376-382.
	Retinoblastoma-like proteins regulate cell differentiation and inhibit cell proliferation. The Dictyostelium discoideum retinoblastoma orthologue RblA affects the differentiation of cells during multicellular development, but it is unclear whether RblA has a significant effect on Dictyostelium cell proliferation, which is inhibited by the secreted proteins AprA and CfaD. We found that rblA(-) cells in shaking culture proliferate to a higher density, die faster after reaching stationary density, and, after starvation, have a lower spore viability than wild-type cells, possibly because in shaking culture, rblA(-) cells have both increased cytokinesis and lower extracellular accumulation of CfaD. However, rblA(-) cells have abnormally slow proliferation on bacterial lawns. Recombinant AprA inhibits the proliferation of wild-type cells but not that of rblA(-) cells, whereas CfaD inhibits the proliferation of both wild-type cells and rblA(-) cells. Similar to aprA(-) cells, rblA(-) cells have a normal mass and protein accumulation rate on a per-nucleus basis, indicating that RblA affects cell proliferation but not cell growth. AprA also functions as a chemorepellent, and RblA is required for proper AprA chemorepellent activity despite the fact that RblA does not affect cell speed. Together, our data indicate that an autocrine proliferation-inhibiting factor acts through RblA to regulate cell density in Dictyostelium, suggesting that such factors may signal through retinoblastoma-like proteins to control the sizes of structures such as developing organs or tumors.

Bailo, N., et al. (2014). "Defective lysosome maturation and Legionella pneumophila replication in Dictyostelium cells mutant for the Arf GAP ACAP-A." J Cell Sci 127(21): 4702-4713.
	Dictyostelium discoideum ACAP-A is an Arf GTPase-activating protein (GAP) involved in cytokinesis, cell migration and actin cytoskeleton dynamics. In mammalian cells, ACAP family members regulate endocytic protein trafficking. Here, we explored the function of ACAP-A in the endocytic pathway of D. discoideum. In the absence of ACAP-A, the efficiency of fusion between post-lysosomes and the plasma membrane was reduced, resulting in the accumulation of post-lysosomes. Moreover, internalized fluid-phase markers showed extended intracellular transit times, and the transfer kinetics of phagocyted particles from lysosomes to post-lysosomes was reduced. Neutralization of lysosomal pH, one essential step in lysosome maturation, was also delayed. Whereas expression of ACAP-A-GFP in acapA(-) cells restored normal particle transport kinetics, a mutant ACAP-A protein with no GAP activity towards the small GTPase ArfA failed to complement this defect. Taken together, these data support a role for ACAP-A in maturation of lysosomes into post-lysosomes through an ArfA-dependent mechanism. In addition, we reveal that ACAP-A is required for efficient intracellular growth of Legionella pneumophila, a pathogen known to subvert the endocytic host cell machinery for replication. This further emphasizes the role of ACAP-A in the endocytic pathway.

Artemenko, Y., et al. (2014). "Moving towards a paradigm: common mechanisms of chemotactic signaling in Dictyostelium and mammalian leukocytes." Cell Mol Life Sci 71(19): 3711-3747.
	Chemotaxis, or directed migration of cells along a chemical gradient, is a highly coordinated process that involves gradient sensing, motility, and polarity. Most of our understanding of chemotaxis comes from studies of cells undergoing amoeboid-type migration, in particular the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum and leukocytes. In these amoeboid cells the molecular events leading to directed migration can be conceptually divided into four interacting networks: receptor/G protein, signal transduction, cytoskeleton, and polarity. The signal transduction network occupies a central position in this scheme as it receives direct input from the receptor/G protein network, as well as feedback from the cytoskeletal and polarity networks. Multiple overlapping modules within the signal transduction network transmit the signals to the actin cytoskeleton network leading to biased pseudopod protrusion in the direction of the gradient. The overall architecture of the networks, as well as the individual signaling modules, is remarkably conserved between Dictyostelium and mammalian leukocytes, and the similarities and differences between the two systems are the subject of this review.

Argyriou, A. I., et al. (2014). "Backbone and side chain NMR assignment, along with the secondary structure prediction of RRM2 domain of La protein from a lower eukaryote exhibiting identical structural organization with its human homolog." Biomol NMR Assign.
	The La protein (Lupus antigen), a key mediator during biogenesis of RNA polymerase III transcripts, contains a characteristic La motif and one or two RNA recognition motif (RRM) domains, depending on the organism of origin. The RRM1 domain is conserved in higher eukaryotes and located in the N-terminal region, whereas the C-terminal RRM2 domain is absent in most lower eukaryotes and its specific role remains, so far, uncharacterized. Here, we present the backbone and side-chain assignment of the 1H, 13C and 15N resonances of RRM2 of La protein from Dictyostelium discoideum. Interestingly, the La protein in this lower eukaryote, exhibits high homology to its human counterpart. Moreover, it contains two RRM domains, instead of one, raising questions on its evolutionary origin and the putative role of RRM2 in vivo. We also provide its secondary structure as predicted by the TALOS+ online tool.

Araki, T., et al. (2014). "Two Dictyostelium tyrosine kinase-like kinases function in parallel, stress-induced STAT activation pathways." Mol Biol Cell 25(20): 3222-3233.
	When Dictyostelium cells are hyperosmotically stressed, STATc is activated by tyrosine phosphorylation. Unusually, activation is regulated by serine phosphorylation and consequent inhibition of a tyrosine phosphatase: PTP3. The identity of the cognate tyrosine kinase is unknown, and we show that two tyrosine kinase-like (TKL) enzymes, Pyk2 and Pyk3, share this function; thus, for stress-induced STATc activation, single null mutants are only marginally impaired, but the double mutant is nonactivatable. When cells are stressed, Pyk2 and Pyk3 undergo increased autocatalytic tyrosine phosphorylation. The site(s) that are generated bind the SH2 domain of STATc, and then STATc becomes the target of further kinase action. The signaling pathways that activate Pyk2 and Pyk3 are only partially overlapping, and there may be a structural basis for this difference because Pyk3 contains both a TKL domain and a pseudokinase domain. The latter functions, like the JH2 domain of metazoan JAKs, as a negative regulator of the kinase domain. The fact that two differently regulated kinases catalyze the same phosphorylation event may facilitate specific targeting because under stress, Pyk3 and Pyk2 accumulate in different parts of the cell; Pyk3 moves from the cytosol to the cortex, whereas Pyk2 accumulates in cytosolic granules that colocalize with PTP3.

Aquino, G., et al. (2014). "Memory improves precision of cell sensing in fluctuating environments." Sci Rep 4: 5688.
	Biological cells are often found to sense their chemical environment near the single-molecule detection limit. Surprisingly, this precision is higher than simple estimates of the fundamental physical limit, hinting towards active sensing strategies. In this work, we analyse the effect of cell memory, e.g. from slow biochemical processes, on the precision of sensing by cell-surface receptors. We derive analytical formulas, which show that memory significantly improves sensing in weakly fluctuating environments. However, surprisingly when memory is adjusted dynamically, the precision is always improved, even in strongly fluctuating environments. In support of this prediction we quantify the directional biases in chemotactic Dictyostelium discoideum cells in a flow chamber with alternating chemical gradients. The strong similarities between cell sensing and control engineering suggest universal problem-solving strategies of living matter.

Apostolidi, M., et al. (2014). "(1)H, (1)(5)N, (1)(3)C assignment and secondary structure determination of two domains of La protein from D. discoideum." Biomol NMR Assign 8(1): 47-51.
	Biosynthesis of RNA polymerase III transcripts requires binding of the La protein at their 3' end. La is an abundant nuclear RNA-binding protein which protects the nascent transcripts from 3' exonuclease degradation. Here, we report the high yield expression and preliminary structural analysis through NMR spectroscopy of two recombinant RNA binding domains (La motif and NRRM) from the La protein of Dictyostelium discoideum. Both recombinant protein constructs were well-folded and allowed for an almost complete sequence-specific assignment of the (15)N and (13)C labeled domains and their secondary structure prediction using PECAN online tool.

Antolovic, V., et al. (2014). "A simple optical configuration for cell tracking by dark-field microscopy." J Microbiol Methods 104: 9-11.
	We describe a simple optical configuration for dark-field microscopy at low magnification, realized with the use of standard microscope components. An inherent high contrast makes this method attractive for computer-assisted tracking and counting of microorganisms. We applied this setup for dark-field microscopy to measure the speed of migrating Dictyostelium amoebae.

Annesley, S. J., et al. (2014). "Dictyostelium, a microbial model for brain disease." Biochim Biophys Acta 1840(4): 1413-1432.
	BACKGROUND: Most neurodegenerative diseases are associated with mitochondrial dysfunction. In humans, mutations in mitochondrial genes result in a range of phenotypic outcomes which do not correlate well with the underlying genetic cause. Other neurodegenerative diseases are caused by mutations that affect the function and trafficking of lysosomes, endosomes and autophagosomes. Many of the complexities of these human diseases can be avoided by studying them in the simple eukaryotic model Dictyostelium discoideum. SCOPE OF REVIEW: This review describes research using Dictyostelium to study cytopathological pathways underlying a variety of neurodegenerative diseases including mitochondrial, lysosomal and vesicle trafficking disorders. MAJOR CONCLUSIONS: Generalised mitochondrial respiratory deficiencies in Dictyostelium produce a consistent pattern of defective phenotypes that are caused by chronic activation of a cellular energy sensor AMPK (AMP-activated protein kinase) and not ATP deficiency per se. Surprisingly, when individual subunits of Complex I are knocked out, both AMPK-dependent and AMPK-independent, subunit-specific phenotypes are observed. Many nonmitochondrial proteins associated with neurological disorders have homologues in Dictyostelium and are associated with the function and trafficking of lysosomes and endosomes. Conversely, some genes associated with neurodegenerative disorders do not have homologues in Dictyostelium and this provides a unique avenue for studying these mutated proteins in the absence of endogeneous protein. GENERAL SIGNIFICANCE: Using the Dictyostelium model we have gained insights into the sublethal cytopathological pathways whose dysregulation contributes to phenotypic outcomes in neurodegenerative disease. This work is beginning to distinguish correlation, cause and effect in the complex network of cross talk between the various organelles involved. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled Frontiers of Mitochondrial Research.

Amaroli, A. (2014). "The Effects of Temperature Variation on the Sensitivity to Pesticides: a Study on the Slime Mould Dictyostelium discoideum (Protozoa)." Microb Ecol.
	Slime moulds live in agricultural ecosystems, where they play an important role in the soil fertilization and in the battle against crop pathogens. In an agricultural soil, the amoebae are exposed to different stress factors such as pesticides and weather conditions. The use of pesticides increased up from 0.49 kg per hectare in 1961 to 2 kg in 2004, and the global greenhouse gas emission has grown 70 % between 1970 and 2004 leading to a global fluctuation of average surface temperature. Therefore, the European Directive 2009/128/EC has led to a new approach to agriculture, with the transition from an old concept based on high use of pesticides and fossil fuels to an agriculture aware of biodiversity and health issues. We studied the effects of temperature variations and pesticides on Dictyostelium discoideum. We measured the fission rate, the ability to differentiate and the markers of stress such as the activity and presence of pseudocholinesterase and the presence of heat shock protein 70. Our results highlight how the sensitivity to zinc, aluminium, silver, copper, cadmium, mercury, diazinon and dicofol changes for a 2 degrees C variation from nothing/low to critical. Our work suggests considering, in future regulations, about the use of pesticides as their toxic effect on non-target organisms is strongly influenced by climate temperatures. In addition, there is a need for a new consideration of the protozoa, which takes into account recent researches about the presence in this microorganism of classical neurotransmitters that, similar to those in animals, make protozoa an innocent target of neurotoxic pesticides in the battle against the pest crops.

Abad, M. G., et al. (2014). "Mitochondrial tRNA 5'-editing in Dictyostelium discoideum and Polysphondylium pallidum." J Biol Chem 289(22): 15155-15165.
	Mitochondrial tRNA (mt-tRNA) 5'-editing was first described more than 20 years ago; however, the first candidates for 5'-editing enzymes were only recently identified in a eukaryotic microbe (protist), the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. In this organism, eight of 18 mt-tRNAs are predicted to be edited based on the presence of genomically encoded mismatched nucleotides in their aminoacyl-acceptor stem sequences. Here, we demonstrate that mt-tRNA 5'-editing occurs at all predicted sites in D. discoideum as evidenced by changes in the sequences of isolated mt-tRNAs compared with the expected sequences encoded by the mitochondrial genome. We also identify two previously unpredicted editing events in which G-U base pairs are edited in the absence of any other genomically encoded mismatches. A comparison of 5'-editing in D. discoideum with 5'-editing in another slime mold, Polysphondylium pallidum, suggests organism-specific idiosyncrasies in the treatment of U-G/G-U pairs. In vitro activities of putative D. discoideum editing enzymes are consistent with the observed editing reactions and suggest an overall lack of tRNA substrate specificity exhibited by the repair component of the editing enzyme. Although the presence of terminal mismatches in mt-tRNA sequences is highly predictive of the occurrence of mt-tRNA 5'-editing, the variability in treatment of U-G/G-U base pairs observed here indicates that direct experimental evidence of 5'-editing must be obtained to understand the complete spectrum of mt-tRNA editing events in any species.

Zhao, S., et al. (2013). "3D arrays for high throughput assay of cell migration and electrotaxis." Cell Biol Int 37(9): 995-1002.
	Cell behaviour in 3D environments can be significantly different from those in 2D cultures. With many different 3D matrices being developed and many experimental modalities used to modulate cell behaviour in 3D, it is necessary to develop high throughput techniques to study behaviour in 3D. We report on a 3D array on slide and have adapted this to our electrotaxis chamber, thereby offering a novel approach to quantify cellular responses to electric fields (EFs) in 3D conditions, in different matrices, with different strains of cells, under various field strengths. These developments used Dictyostelium cells to illustrate possible applications and limitations.

Zhang, X. and T. Soldati (2013). "Detecting, visualizing and quantitating the generation of reactive oxygen species in an amoeba model system." J Vis Exp(81): e50717.
	Reactive oxygen species (ROS) comprise a range of reactive and short-lived, oxygen-containing molecules, which are dynamically interconverted or eliminated either catalytically or spontaneously. Due to the short life spans of most ROS and the diversity of their sources and subcellular localizations, a complete picture can be obtained only by careful measurements using a combination of protocols. Here, we present a set of three different protocols using OxyBurst Green (OBG)-coated beads, or dihydroethidium (DHE) and Amplex UltraRed (AUR), to monitor qualitatively and quantitatively various ROS in professional phagocytes such as Dictyostelium. We optimised the beads coating procedures and used OBG-coated beads and live microscopy to dynamically visualize intraphagosomal ROS generation at the single cell level. We identified lipopolysaccharide (LPS) from E. coli as a potent stimulator for ROS generation in Dictyostelium. In addition, we developed real time, medium-throughput assays using DHE and AUR to quantitatively measure intracellular superoxide and extracellular H2O2 production, respectively.

Zhang, C., et al. (2013). "A thraustochytrid diacylglycerol acyltransferase 2 with broad substrate specificity strongly increases oleic acid content in engineered Arabidopsis thaliana seeds." J Exp Bot 64(11): 3189-3200.
	Diacylglycerol acyltransferase (DGAT) catalyses the last step in acyl-CoA-dependent triacylglycerol (TAG) biosynthesis and is an important determinant of cellular oil content and quality. In this study, a gene, designated TaDGAT2, encoding a type 2 DGAT (DGAT2)-related enzyme was identified from the oleaginous marine protist Thraustochytrium aureum. The deduced TaDGAT2 sequence contains a ~460 amino acid domain most closely related to DGAT2s from Dictyostelium sp. (45-50% identity). Recombinant TaDGAT2 restored TAG biosynthesis to the Saccharomyces cerevisiae H1246 TAG-deficient mutant, and microsomes from the complemented mutant displayed DGAT activity with C16 and C18 saturated and unsaturated fatty acyl-CoA and diacylglycerol substrates. To examine its biotechnological potential, TaDGAT2 was expressed under control of a strong seed-specific promoter in wild-type Arabidopsis thaliana and the high linoleic acid fad3fae1 mutant. In both backgrounds, little change was detected in seed oil content, but a striking increase in oleic acid content of seeds was observed. This increase was greatest in fad3fae1 seeds, where relative amounts of oleic acid increased nearly 2-fold to >50% of total fatty acids. In addition, >2-fold increase in oleic acid levels was detected in the triacylglycerol sn-2 position and in the major seed phospholipid phosphatidylcholine. These results suggest that increased seed oleic acid content mediated by TaDGAT2 is influenced in part by the fatty acid composition of host cells and occurs not by enhancing oleic acid content at the TAG sn-3 position directly but by increasing total oleic acid levels in seeds, presumably by limiting flux through phosphatidylcholine-based desaturation reactions.

Yumura, S., et al. (2013). "Cell-scale dynamic recycling and cortical flow of the actin-myosin cytoskeleton for rapid cell migration." Biol Open 2(2): 200-209.
	Actin and myosin II play major roles in cell migration. Whereas pseudopod extension by actin polymerization has been intensively researched, less attention has been paid to how the rest of the actin cytoskeleton such as the actin cortex contributes to cell migration. In this study, cortical actin and myosin II filaments were simultaneously observed in migrating Dictyostelium cells under total internal reflection fluorescence microscopy. The cortical actin and myosin II filaments remained stationary with respect to the substratum as the cells advanced. However, fluorescence recovery after photobleaching experiments and direct observation of filaments showed that they rapidly turned over. When the cells were detached from the substratum, the actin and myosin filaments displayed a vigorous retrograde flow. Thus, when the cells migrate on the substratum, the cortical cytoskeleton firmly holds the substratum to generate the motive force instead. The present studies also demonstrate how myosin II localizes to the rear region of the migrating cells. The observed dynamic turnover of actin and myosin II filaments contributes to the recycling of their subunits across the whole cell and enables rapid reorganization of the cytoskeleton.

Yang, Y., et al. (2013). "PakB binds to the SH3 domain of Dictyostelium Abp1 and regulates its effects on cell polarity and early development." Mol Biol Cell 24(14): 2216-2227.
	Dictyostelium p21-activated kinase B (PakB) phosphorylates and activates class I myosins. PakB colocalizes with myosin I to actin-rich regions of the cell, including macropinocytic and phagocytic cups and the leading edge of migrating cells. Here we show that residues 1-180 mediate the cellular localization of PakB. Yeast two-hybrid and pull-down experiments identify two proline-rich motifs in PakB-1-180 that directly interact with the SH3 domain of Dictyostelium actin-binding protein 1 (dAbp1). dAbp1 colocalizes with PakB to actin-rich regions in the cell. The loss of dAbp1 does not affect the cellular distribution of PakB, whereas the loss of PakB causes dAbp1 to adopt a diffuse cytosolic distribution. Cosedimentation studies show that the N-terminal region of PakB (residues 1-70) binds directly to actin filaments, whereas dAbp1 exhibits only a low affinity for filamentous actin. PakB-1-180 significantly enhances the binding of dAbp1 to actin filaments. When overexpressed in PakB-null cells, dAbp1 completely blocks early development at the aggregation stage, prevents cell polarization, and significantly reduces chemotaxis rates. The inhibitory effects are abrogated by the introduction of a function-blocking mutation into the dAbp1 SH3 domain. We conclude that PakB plays a critical role in regulating the cellular functions of dAbp1, which are mediated largely by its SH3 domain.

Yang, C., et al. (2013). "ATP-Binding Cassette Transporter B4 Anchors the Cell Adhesion Molecule DdCAD-1 to Cell Membrane in Dictyostelium discoideum." Indian J Microbiol 53(4): 460-466.
	In Dictyostelium, soluble cell adhesion molecule, DdCAD-1, regulates cell-cell interaction through an unknown anchoring protein on the plasma membrane. Far western blot analysis using different probes revealed that the potential DdCAD-1 interacting protein was between 64 and 98 kDa. To isolate and identify the anchoring protein, GST-DdCAD-1 and anchoring protein were cross-linked in vivo by chemical cross-linker and stable protein complex was isolated by co-immunoprecipitation assays. The protein cross-linked to DdCAD-1 was extracted from the gel slice and trypsinized. The peptides were subjected to analysis by mass spectrometry, which showed that the putative anchoring protein belongs to ATP-binding cassette transporter family.

Yamada, Y., et al. (2013). "The Dictyostelium prestalk inducer DIF-1 directs phosphorylation of a bZIP transcription factor." Int J Dev Biol 57(5): 375-381.
	DIF-1, a chlorinated hexaphenone produced by developing Dictyostelium cells, induces prestalk differentiation. DimB is a bZIP transcription factor that accumulates in the nucleus upon exposure to DIF-1, where it directly activates transcription of DIF-responsive genes. The signaling steps upstream of DimB and downstream of DIF-1 are entirely unknown. Analysis by mass spectrometry shows that incubation with DIF-1 rapidly stimulates phosphorylation at several sites in DimB. We characterize the most highly responsive site, S590, which is located very close to the C terminus. A point mutation in this site, S590A, does not inhibit DimB nuclear accumulation in response to DIF. However, this seems likely to reflect functional redundancy with other sites; because a panel of chemical variants on the structure of DIF-1 show a correlation between their potencies as inducers of DimB nuclear accumulation and their potencies as inducers of phosphorylation at S590. Furthermore, the S590A mutant is fully active in mutant rescue of a dimB null strain, arguing against an alternative role in transcriptional activation of target genes. We conclude that i) DIF-1 directs phosphorylation at S590, ii) although it is not essential for nuclear accumulation in response to DIF-1 correlative evidence, based upon a panel of DIF-1 related molecules, suggests that this modification may play a redundant role in the process. iii) We also present evidence that the kinase activity, which phosphorylates S590, is non-nuclear and that this signalling pathway is, in part at least, independent of the DIF-regulated STATc activation pathway.

Wu, Y. and C. Janetopoulos (2013). "Systematic analysis of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) metabolism and function in the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum." J Biol Chem 288(21): 15280-15290.
	While GABA has been suggested to regulate spore encapsulation in the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum, the metabolic profile and other potential functions of GABA during development remain unclear. In this study, we investigated the homeostasis of GABA metabolism by disrupting genes related to GABA metabolism and signaling. Extracellular levels of GABA are tightly regulated during early development, and GABA is generated by the glutamate decarboxylase, GadB, during growth and in early development. However, overexpression of the prespore-specific homologue, GadA, in the presence of GadB reduces production of extracellular GABA. Perturbation of extracellular GABA levels delays the process of aggregation. Cytosolic GABA is degraded by the GABA transaminase, GabT, in the mitochondria. Disruption of a putative vesicular GABA transporter (vGAT) homologue DdvGAT reduces secreted GABA. We identified the GABAB receptor-like family member GrlB as the major GABA receptor during early development, and either disruption or overexpression of GrlB delays aggregation. This delay is likely the result of an abolished pre-starvation response and late expression of several "early" developmental genes. Distinct genes are employed for GABA generation during sporulation. During sporulation, GadA alone is required for generating GABA and DdvGAT is likely responsible for GABA secretion. GrlE but not GrlB is the GABA receptor during late development.

Wu, Y. and C. Janetopoulos (2013). "The G alpha subunit Galpha8 inhibits proliferation, promotes adhesion and regulates cell differentiation." Dev Biol 380(1): 58-72.
	Heterotrimeric G protein-mediated signal transduction plays a pivotal role in both vegetative and developmental stages in the eukaryote Dictyostelium discoideum. Here we describe novel functions of the G protein alpha subunit Galpha8 during vegetative and development stages. Galpha8 is expressed at low levels during vegetative growth. Loss of Galpha8 promotes cell proliferation, whereas excess Galpha8 expression dramatically inhibits growth and induces aberrant cytokinesis on substrates in a Gbeta-dependent manner. Overexpression of Galpha8 also leads to increased cell-cell cohesion and cell-substrate adhesion. We demonstrate that the increased cell-cell cohesion is mainly caused by induced CadA expression, and the induced cell-substrate adhesion is responsible for the cytokinesis defects. However, the expression of several putative constitutively active mutants of Galpha8 does not augment the phenotypes caused by intact Galpha8. Galpha8 is strongly induced after starvation, and loss of Galpha8 results in decreased expression of certain adhesion molecules including CsA and tgrC1. Interestingly, Galpha8 is preferentially distributed in the upper and lower cup of the fruiting body. Lack of Galpha8 decreases the expression of the specific marker of the anterior-like cells, suggesting that Galpha8 is required for anterior-like cell differentiation.

Windhof, I. M., et al. (2013). "Chromatin organisation of transgenes in Dictyostelium." Pharmazie 68(7): 595-600.
	The introduction of transgenes in Dictyostelium discoideum typically results in the integration of the transformation vector into the genome at one or a few insertion sites as tandem arrays of approximately 100 copies. Exceptions are extrachromosomal vectors, which do not integrate into chromosomes, and vectors containing resistance markers such as blasticidin, which integrate as single copies at one or a few sites. Here we report that low copy number vector inserts display typical euchromatic features while high copy number insertions are enriched for modifications associate with heterochromatin. Interestingly, high copy number insertions also colocalise with heterochromatin, are enriched for the centromeric histone CenH3 and display centromere-like behaviour during mitosis. We also found that the chromatin organisation on extrachromosmal transgenes is different from those integrated into the chromosomes.

Winckler, T. (2013). "Selfish DNA: a pharmaceutical perspective." Pharmazie 68(7): 467-473.
	Almost 25 years ago, Theo Dingermann published the discovery of a new mobile genetic element in the unicellular microbe Dictyostelium discoideum in the journal Science. An interesting property of this new molecular parasite, the Dictyostelium Repetitive Element (DRE), was that all integrations were found approximately 50 base pairs (bp) upstream of transfer RNA (tRNA) genes in the D. discoideum genome, thus implying an active targeting mechanism to avoid the disruption of host cell genes by the retrotransposition process. Since then, the facultative multicellular "social amoeba" D. discoideum has become a popular model for analyzing complex cellular functions such as cell movement, chemotaxis, phagocytosis, and cell differentiation, important areas of biomedical research that are often hard to investigate in cells from "higher organisms" including humans. Therefore, progress in the development of methods to study Dictyostelium biology has also provoked research on transposable elements in this organism. Early work on the DRE element suggested that studying its molecular mechanism of site-specific integration might promote human gene therapy technology through the design of integrating gene transfer vectors with low intrinsic genotoxic potential. In this review article, I will briefly review the original research performed on the DRE transposable element in the Dingermann lab and report on how the emergence of genomics technologies and the development of tools to analyze de novo retrotransposition events in D. discoideum cells will expand our knowledge of DRE biology in the future.

Wilson, M. S., et al. (2013). "Inositol pyrophosphates: between signalling and metabolism." Biochem J 452(3): 369-379.
	The present review will explore the insights gained into inositol pyrophosphates in the 20 years since their discovery in 1993. These molecules are defined by the presence of the characteristic 'high energy' pyrophosphate moiety and can be found ubiquitously in eukaryotic cells. The enzymes that synthesize them are similarly well distributed and can be found encoded in any eukaryote genome. Rapid progress has been made in characterizing inositol pyrophosphate metabolism and they have been linked to a surprisingly diverse range of cellular functions. Two decades of work is now beginning to present a view of inositol pyrophosphates as fundamental, conserved and highly important agents in the regulation of cellular homoeostasis. In particular it is emerging that energy metabolism, and thus ATP production, is closely regulated by these molecules. Much of the early work on these molecules was performed in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae and the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum, but the development of mouse knockouts for IP6K1 and IP6K2 [IP6K is IP6 (inositol hexakisphosphate) kinase] in the last 5 years has provided very welcome tools to better understand the physiological roles of inositol pyrophosphates. Another recent innovation has been the use of gel electrophoresis to detect and purify inositol pyrophosphates. Despite the advances that have been made, many aspects of inositol pyrophosphate biology remain far from clear. By evaluating the literature, the present review hopes to promote further research in this absorbing area of biology.

Wiegand, S. and C. Hammann (2013). "The 5' spreading of small RNAs in Dictyostelium discoideum depends on the RNA-dependent RNA polymerase RrpC and on the dicer-related nuclease DrnB." PLoS One 8(5): e64804.
	RNA interference (RNAi) is a gene-regulatory mechanism in eukarya that is based on the presence of double stranded RNA and that can act on both, the transcription or post-transcriptional level. In many species, RNA-dependent RNA polymerases (RdRPs) are required for RNAi. To study the function of the three RdRPs in the amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum, we have deleted the encoding genes rrpA, rrpB and rrpC in all possible combinations. In these strains, expression of either antisense or hairpin RNA constructs against the transgene lacZ resulted in a 50% reduced beta-Galactosidase activity. Northern blots surprisingly revealed unchanged lacZ mRNA levels, indicative of post-transcriptional regulation. Only in rrpC knock out strains, low levels of beta-gal small interfering RNAs (siRNAs) could be detected in antisense RNA expressing strains. In contrast to this, and at considerably higher levels, all hairpin RNA expressing strains featured beta-gal siRNAs. Spreading of the silencing signal to mRNA sequences 5' of the original hairpin trigger was observed in all strains, except when the rrpC gene or that of the dicer-related nuclease DrnB was deleted. Thus, our data indicate that transitivity of an RNA silencing signal exists in D. discoideum and that it requires the two enzymes RrpC and DrnB.

Whitehead, M. P., et al. (2013). "Horizontal transfer of bacterial polyphosphate kinases to eukaryotes: implications for the ice age and land colonisation." BMC Res Notes 6: 221.
	BACKGROUND: Studies of online database(s) showed that convincing examples of eukaryote PPKs derived from bacteria type PPK1 and PPK2 enzymes are rare and currently confined to a few simple eukaryotes. These enzymes probably represent several separate horizontal transfer events. Retention of such sequences may be an advantage for tolerance to stresses such as desiccation or nutrient depletion for simple eukaryotes that lack more sophisticated adaptations available to multicellular organisms. We propose that the acquisition of encoding sequences for these enzymes by horizontal transfer enhanced the ability of early plants to colonise the land. The improved ability to sequester and release inorganic phosphate for carbon fixation by photosynthetic algae in the ocean may have accelerated or even triggered global glaciation events. There is some evidence for DNA sequences encoding PPKs in a wider range of eukaryotes, notably some invertebrates, though it is unclear that these represent functional genes.Polyphosphate (poly P) is found in all cells, carrying out a wide range of essential roles. Studied mainly in prokaryotes, the enzymes responsible for synthesis of poly P in eukaryotes (polyphosphate kinases PPKs) are not well understood. The best characterised enzyme from bacteria known to catalyse the formation of high molecular weight polyphosphate from ATP is PPK1 which shows some structural similarity to phospholipase D. A second bacterial PPK (PPK2) resembles thymidylate kinase. Recent reports have suggested a widespread distribution of these bacteria type enzymes in eukaryotes. RESULTS: On - line databases show evidence for the presence of genes encoding PPK1 in only a limited number of eukaryotes. These include the photosynthetic eukaryotes Ostreococcus tauri, O. lucimarinus, Porphyra yezoensis, Cyanidioschyzon merolae and the moss Physcomitrella patens, as well as the amoeboid symbiont Capsaspora owczarzaki and the non-photosynthetic eukaryotes Dictyostelium (3 species), Polysphondylium pallidum and Thecamonas trahens. A second bacterial PPK (PPK2) is found in just two eukaryotes (O. tauri and the sea anemone Nematostella vectensis). There is some evidence for PPK1 and PPK2 encoding sequences in other eukaryotes but some of these may be artefacts of bacterial contamination of gene libraries. CONCLUSIONS: Evidence for the possible origins of these eukaryote PPK1s and PPK2s and potential prokaryote donors via horizontal gene transfer is presented. The selective advantage of acquiring and maintaining a prokaryote PPK in a eukaryote is proposed to enhance stress tolerance in a changing environment related to the capture and metabolism of inorganic phosphate compounds. Bacterial PPKs may also have enhanced the abilities of marine phytoplankton to sequester phosphate, hence accelerating global carbon fixation.

Westendorf, C., et al. (2013). "Actin cytoskeleton of chemotactic amoebae operates close to the onset of oscillations." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 110(10): 3853-3858.
	The rapid reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton in response to external stimuli is an essential property of many motile eukaryotic cells. Here, we report evidence that the actin machinery of chemotactic Dictyostelium cells operates close to an oscillatory instability. When averaging the actin response of many cells to a short pulse of the chemoattractant cAMP, we observed a transient accumulation of cortical actin reminiscent of a damped oscillation. At the single-cell level, however, the response dynamics ranged from short, strongly damped responses to slowly decaying, weakly damped oscillations. Furthermore, in a small subpopulation, we observed self-sustained oscillations in the cortical F-actin concentration. To substantiate that an oscillatory mechanism governs the actin dynamics in these cells, we systematically exposed a large number of cells to periodic pulse trains of different frequencies. Our results indicate a resonance peak at a stimulation period of around 20 s. We propose a delayed feedback model that explains our experimental findings based on a time-delay in the regulatory network of the actin system. To test the model, we performed stimulation experiments with cells that express GFP-tagged fusion proteins of Coronin and actin-interacting protein 1, as well as knockout mutants that lack Coronin and actin-interacting protein 1. These actin-binding proteins enhance the disassembly of actin filaments and thus allow us to estimate the delay time in the regulatory feedback loop. Based on this independent estimate, our model predicts an intrinsic period of 20 s, which agrees with the resonance observed in our periodic stimulation experiments.

Weiss, I. M., et al. (2013). "On the function of chitin synthase extracellular domains in biomineralization." J Struct Biol 183(2): 216-225.
	Molluscs with various shell architectures evolved around 542-525 million years ago, as part of a larger phenomenon related to the diversification of metazoan phyla. Molluscs deposit minerals in a chitin matrix. The mollusc chitin is synthesized by transmembrane enzymes that contain several unique extracellular domains. Here we investigate the assembly mechanism of the chitin synthase Ar-CS1 via its extracellular domain ArCS1_E22. The corresponding transmembrane protein ArCS1_E22TM accumulates in membrane fractions of the expression host Dictyostelium discoideum. Soluble recombinant ArCS1_E22 proteins can be purified as monomers only at basic pH. According to confocal fluorescence microscopy experiments, immunolabeled ArCS1_E22 proteins adsorb preferably to aragonitic nacre platelets at pH 7.75. At pH 8.2 or pH 9.0 the fluorescence signal is less intense, indicating that protein-mineral interaction is reduced with increasing pH. Furthermore, ArCS1_E22 forms regular nanostructures on cationic substrates as revealed by atomic force microscopy (AFM) experiments on modified mica cleavage planes. These experiments suggest that the extracellular domain ArCS1_E22 is involved in regulating the multiple enzyme activities of Ar-CS1 such as chitin synthesis and myosin movements by interaction with mineral surfaces and eventually by protein assembly. The protein complexes could locally probe the status of mineralization according to pH unless ions and pCO2 are balanced with suitable buffer substances. Taking into account that the intact enzyme could act as a force sensor, the results presented here provide further evidence that shell formation is coordinated physiologically with precise adjustment of cellular activities to the structure, topography and stiffness at the mineralizing interface.

Weis, W. I., et al. (2013). "Evolution and cell physiology. 3. Using Dictyostelium discoideum to investigate mechanisms of epithelial polarity." Am J Physiol Cell Physiol 305(11): C1091-1095.
	In Metazoa, a polarized epithelium forms a single-cell-layered barrier that separates the outside from the inside of the organism. In tubular epithelia, the apical side of the cell is constricted relative to the basal side, forming a wedge-shaped cell that can pack into a tube. Apical constriction is mediated by actomyosin activity. In higher animals, apical actomyosin is connected between cells by specialized cell-cell junctions that contain a classical cadherin, the Wnt signaling protein beta-catenin, and the actin-binding protein alpha-catenin. The molecular mechanisms that lead to selective accumulation of myosin at the apical surface of cells are poorly understood. We found that the nonmetazoan Dictyostelium discoideum forms a polarized epithelium that surrounds the stalk tube at the tip of the multicellular fruiting body. Although D. discoideum lacks a cadherin homolog, it expresses homologs of beta- and alpha-catenin. Both catenins are essential for formation of the tip epithelium, polarized protein secretion, and proper multicellular morphogenesis. Myosin localizes apically in tip epithelial cells, and it appears that constriction of this epithelial tube is required for proper morphogenesis. Localization of myosin II is controlled by the protein IQGAP1 and its binding partners cortexillins I and II, which function downstream of alpha- and beta-catenin to exclude myosin from the basolateral cortex and promote apical accumulation of myosin. These studies show that the function of catenins in cell polarity predates the evolution of Wnt signaling and classical cadherins, and that apical localization of myosin is a morphogenetic mechanism conserved from nonmetazoans to vertebrates.

Wang, Y., et al. (2013). "Rho GTPases orient directional sensing in chemotaxis." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 110(49): E4723-4732.
	During chemotaxis, cells sense extracellular chemical gradients and position Ras GTPase activation and phosphatidylinositol (3,4,5)-triphosphate (PIP3) production toward chemoattractants. These two major signaling events are visualized by biosensors in a crescent-like zone at the plasma membrane. Here, we show that a Dictyostelium Rho GTPase, RacE, and a guanine nucleotide exchange factor, GxcT, stabilize the orientation of Ras activation and PIP3 production in response to chemoattractant gradients, and this regulation occurred independently of the actin cytoskeleton and cell polarity. Cells lacking RacE or GxcT fail to persistently direct Ras activation and PIP3 production toward chemoattractants, leading to lateral pseudopod extension and impaired chemotaxis. Constitutively active forms of RacE and human RhoA are located on the portion of the plasma membrane that faces lower concentrations of chemoattractants, opposite of PIP3 production. Mechanisms that control the localization of the constitutively active form of RacE require its effector domain, but not PIP3. Our findings reveal a critical role for Rho GTPases in positioning Ras activation and thereby establishing the accuracy of directional sensing.

Walker, M. C. and R. S. Williams (2013). "The search for better epilepsy treatments: from slime mould to coconuts." Biochem Soc Trans 41(6): 1625-1628.
	Drug-resistant epilepsy has remained a problem since the inception of antiepileptic drug development, despite the large variety of antiepileptic drugs available today. Moreover, the mechanism-of-action of these drugs is often unknown. This is due to the widespread screening of compounds through animal models. We have taken a different approach to antiepileptic drug discovery and have identified a biochemical pathway in Dictyostelium discoideum (a 'slime mould') that may relate to the mechanism-of-action of valproate, one of the most commonly used and effective antiepileptic drugs. Through screening in this pathway, we have been able to identify a whole host of fatty acids and fatty acid derivatives with potential antiepileptic activity; this was then confirmed in in vitro and in vivo mammalian seizure models. Some of these compounds are more potent than valproate and potentially lack many of the major side effects of valproate (including birth defects and liver toxicity). In addition, one of the compounds that we have identified is a major constituent of the ketogenic diet, strongly arguing that it may be the fatty acids and not the ketogenesis that are mediating the effect of this diet.

Vernay, A. and P. Cosson (2013). "Immunofluorescence labeling of cell surface antigens in Dictyostelium." BMC Res Notes 6: 317.
	BACKGROUND: Immunolocalization of cellular antigens typically requires fixation and permeabilization of cells, prior to incubation with antibodies. FINDINGS: Assessing a test protein abundantly present at the cell surface of Dictyostelium cells, we show that in fixed cells, permeabilization extracts almost completely this cell surface antigen. The extent of this artifact is variable depending on the procedure used for labeling and permeabilization, as well as on the antigen considered. CONCLUSIONS: An optimized protocol for labeling both surface and intracellular antigens without significant loss of labeling is proposed.

Vasieva, O., et al. (2013). "Mathematical modelling in developmental biology." Reproduction 145(6): R175-184.
	In recent decades, molecular and cellular biology has benefited from numerous fascinating developments in experimental technique, generating an overwhelming amount of data on various biological objects and processes. This, in turn, has led biologists to look for appropriate tools to facilitate systematic analysis of data. Thus, the need for mathematical techniques, which can be used to aid the classification and understanding of this ever-growing body of experimental data, is more profound now than ever before. Mathematical modelling is becoming increasingly integrated into biological studies in general and into developmental biology particularly. This review outlines some achievements of mathematics as applied to developmental biology and demonstrates the mathematical formulation of basic principles driving morphogenesis. We begin by describing a mathematical formalism used to analyse the formation and scaling of morphogen gradients. Then we address a problem of interplay between the dynamics of morphogen gradients and movement of cells, referring to mathematical models of gastrulation in the chick embryo. In the last section, we give an overview of various mathematical models used in the study of the developmental cycle of Dictyostelium discoideum, which is probably the best example of successful mathematical modelling in developmental biology.

Umeki, N., et al. (2013). "Rapid nucleotide exchange renders Asp-11 mutant actins resistant to depolymerizing activity of cofilin, leading to dominant toxicity in vivo." J Biol Chem 288(3): 1739-1749.
	Conserved Asp-11 of actin is a part of the nucleotide binding pocket, and its mutation to Gln is dominant lethal in yeast, whereas the mutation to Asn in human alpha-actin dominantly causes congenital myopathy. To elucidate the molecular mechanism of those dominant negative effects, we prepared Dictyostelium versions of D11N and D11Q mutant actins and characterized them in vitro. D11N and D11Q actins underwent salt-dependent reversible polymerization, although the resultant polymerization products contained small anomalous structures in addition to filaments of normal appearance. Both monomeric and polymeric D11Q actin released bound nucleotides more rapidly than the wild type, and intriguingly, both monomeric and polymeric D11Q actins hardly bound cofilin. The deficiency in cofilin binding can be explained by rapid exchange of bound nucleotide with ATP in solution, because cofilin does not bind ATP-bound actin. Copolymers of D11Q and wild type actins bound cofilin, but cofilin-induced depolymerization of the copolymers was slower than that of wild type filaments, which may presumably be the primary reason why this mutant actin is dominantly toxic in vivo. Purified D11N actin was unstable, which made its quantitative biochemical characterization difficult. However, monomeric D11N actin released nucleotides even faster than D11Q, and we speculate that D11N actin also exerts its toxic effects in vivo through a defective interaction with cofilin. We have recently found that two other dominant negative actin mutants are also defective in cofilin binding, and we propose that the defective cofilin binder is a major class of dominant negative actin mutants.

Tweedy, L., et al. (2013). "Distinct cell shapes determine accurate chemotaxis." Sci Rep 3: 2606.
	The behaviour of an organism often reflects a strategy for coping with its environment. Such behaviour in higher organisms can often be reduced to a few stereotyped modes of movement due to physiological limitations, but finding such modes in amoeboid cells is more difficult as they lack these constraints. Here, we examine cell shape and movement in starved Dictyostelium amoebae during migration toward a chemoattractant in a microfluidic chamber. We show that the incredible variety in amoeboid shape across a population can be reduced to a few modes of variation. Interestingly, cells use distinct modes depending on the applied chemical gradient, with specific cell shapes associated with shallow, difficult-to-sense gradients. Modelling and drug treatment reveals that these behaviours are intrinsically linked with accurate sensing at the physical limit. Since similar behaviours are observed in a diverse range of cell types, we propose that cell shape and behaviour are conserved traits.

Tsugiyama, H., et al. (2013). "Electroporation of adherent cells with low sample volumes on a microscope stage." J Exp Biol 216(Pt 19): 3591-3598.
	The labeling of specific molecules and their artificial control in living cells are powerful techniques for investigating intracellular molecular dynamics. To use these techniques, molecular compounds (hereinafter described simply as 'samples') need to be loaded into cells. Electroporation techniques are exploited to load membrane-impermeant samples into cells. Here, we developed a new electroporator with four special characteristics. (1) Electric pulses are applied to the adherent cells directly, without removing them from the substratum. (2) Samples can be loaded into the adherent cells while observing them on the stage of an inverted microscope. (3) Only 2 mul of sample solution is sufficient. (4) The device is very easy to use, as the cuvette, which is connected to the tip of a commercially available auto-pipette, is manipulated by hand. Using our device, we loaded a fluorescent probe of actin filaments, Alexa Fluor 546 phalloidin, into migrating keratocytes. The level of this probe in the cells could be easily adjusted by changing its concentration in the electroporation medium. Samples could be loaded into keratocytes, neutrophil-like HL-60 cells and Dictyostelium cells on a coverslip, and keratocytes on an elastic silicone substratum. The new device should be useful for a wide range of adherent cells and allow electroporation for cells on various types of the substrata.

Tikhonenko, I., et al. (2013). "A kinesin-mediated mechanism that couples centrosomes to nuclei." Cell Mol Life Sci 70(7): 1285-1296.
	The M-type kinesin isoform, Kif9, has recently been implicated in maintaining a physical connection between the centrosome and nucleus in Dictyostelium discoideum. However, the mechanism by which Kif9 functions to link these two organelles remains obscure. Here we demonstrate that the Kif9 protein is localized to the nuclear envelope and is concentrated in the region underlying the centrosome point of attachment. Nuclear anchorage appears mediated through a specialized transmembrane domain located in the carboxyl terminus. Kif9 interacts with microtubules in in vitro binding assays and effects an endwise depolymerization of the polymer. These results suggest a model whereby Kif9 is anchored to the nucleus and generates a pulling force that reels the centrosome up against the nucleus. This is a novel activity for a kinesin motor, one important for progression of cells into mitosis and to ensure centrosome-nuclear parity in a multinuclear environment.

Tian, X., et al. (2013). "Dictyostelium development shows a novel pattern of evolutionary conservation." Mol Biol Evol 30(4): 977-984.
	von Baer's law states that early stages of animal development are the most conserved. More recent evidence supports a modified "hourglass" pattern in which an early but somewhat later stage is most conserved. Both patterns have been explained by the relative complexity of either temporal or spatial interactions; the greatest conservation and lowest evolvability occur at the time of the most complex interactions, because these cause larger effects that are harder for selection to alter. This general kind of explanation might apply universally across independent multicellular systems, as supported by the recent finding of the hourglass pattern in plants. We use RNA-seq expression data from the development of the slime mold Dictyostelium to demonstrate that it does not follow either of the two canonical patterns but instead tends to show the strongest conservation and weakest evolvability late in development. We propose that this is consistent with a version of the spatial constraints model, modified for organisms that never achieve a high degree of developmental modularity.

Tatischeff, I. (2013). "Assets of the non-pathogenic microorganism as a model for the study of eukaryotic extracellular vesicles." F1000Res 2: 73.
	Dictyostelium discoideum microvesicles have recently been presented as a valuable model for eukaryotic extracellular vesicles. Here, the advantages of D. discoideum for unraveling important biological functions of extracellular vesicles in general are detailed. D. discoideum, a non-pathogenic eukaryotic microorganism, belongs to a billion-year-old Amoeboza lineage, which diverged from the animal-fungal lineage after the plant animal-split. During growth and early starvation-induced development, it presents analogies with lymphocytes and macrophages with regard to motility and phagocytosis capability, respectively. Its 6-chromosome genome codes for about 12,500 genes, some showing analogies with human genes. The presence of extracellular vesicles during cell growth has been evidenced as a detoxification mechanism of various structurally unrelated drugs. Controls led to the discovery of constitutive extracellular vesicle secretion in this microorganism, which was an important point. It means that the secretion of extracellular vesicles occurs, in the absence of any drug, during both cell growth and early development. This constitutive secretion of D. discoideum cells is very likely to play a role in intercellular communication. The detoxifying secreted vesicles, which can transport drugs outside the cells, can also act as "Trojan horses", capable of transferring these drugs not only into naive D. discoideum cells, but into human cells as well. Therefore, these extracellular vesicles were proposed as a new biological drug delivery tool. Moreover, Dictyostelium, chosen by the NIH (USA) as a new model organism for biomedical research, has already been used for studying some human diseases. These cells, which are much easier to manipulate than human cells, can be easily designed in simple conditioned medium experiments. Owing to the increasing consensus that extracellular vesicles are probably important mediators of intercellular communication, D. discoideum is here suggested to constitute a convenient model for tracking as yet unknown biological functions of eukaryotic extracellular vesicles.

Tatischeff, I. (2013). "Assets of the non-pathogenic microorganism Dictyostelium discoideum as a model for the study of eukaryotic extracellular vesicles." F1000Res 2: 73.
	Dictyostelium discoideum microvesicles have recently been presented as a valuable model for eukaryotic extracellular vesicles. Here, the advantages of D. discoideum for unraveling important biological functions of extracellular vesicles in general are detailed. D. discoideum, a non-pathogenic eukaryotic microorganism, belongs to a billion-year-old Amoeboza lineage, which diverged from the animal-fungal lineage after the plant animal-split. During growth and early starvation-induced development, it presents analogies with lymphocytes and macrophages with regard to motility and phagocytosis capability, respectively. Its 6-chromosome genome codes for about 12,500 genes, some showing analogies with human genes. The presence of extracellular vesicles during cell growth has been evidenced as a detoxification mechanism of various structurally unrelated drugs. Controls led to the discovery of constitutive extracellular vesicle secretion in this microorganism, which was an important point. It means that the secretion of extracellular vesicles occurs, in the absence of any drug, during both cell growth and early development. This constitutive secretion of D. discoideum cells is very likely to play a role in intercellular communication. The detoxifying secreted vesicles, which can transport drugs outside the cells, can also act as "Trojan horses", capable of transferring these drugs not only into naive D. discoideum cells, but into human cells as well. Therefore, these extracellular vesicles were proposed as a new biological drug delivery tool. Moreover, Dictyostelium, chosen by the NIH (USA) as a new model organism for biomedical research, has already been used for studying some human diseases. These cells, which are much easier to manipulate than human cells, can be easily designed in simple conditioned medium experiments. Owing to the increasing consensus that extracellular vesicles are probably important mediators of intercellular communication, D. discoideum is here suggested to constitute a convenient model for tracking as yet unknown biological functions of eukaryotic extracellular vesicles.

Taniguchi, D., et al. (2013). "Phase geometries of two-dimensional excitable waves govern self-organized morphodynamics of amoeboid cells." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 110(13): 5016-5021.
	In both randomly moving Dictyostelium and mammalian cells, phosphatidylinositol (3,4,5)-trisphosphate and F-actin are known to propagate as waves at the membrane and act to push out the protruding edge. To date, however, the relationship between the wave geometry and the patterns of amoeboid shape change remains elusive. Here, by using phase map analysis, we show that morphology dynamics of randomly moving Dictyostelium discoideum cells can be characterized by the number, topology, and position of spatial phase singularities, i.e., points that represent organizing centers of rotating waves. A single isolated singularity near the cellular edge induced a rotational protrusion, whereas a pair of singularities supported a symmetric extension. These singularities appeared by strong phase resetting due to de novo nucleation at the back of preexisting waves. Analysis of a theoretical model indicated excitability of the system that is governed by positive feedback from phosphatidylinositol (3,4,5)-trisphosphate to PI3-kinase activation, and we showed experimentally that this requires F-actin. Furthermore, by incorporating membrane deformation into the model, we demonstrated that geometries of competing waves explain most of the observed semiperiodic changes in amoeboid morphology.

Sun, Y., et al. (2013). "Keratocyte fragments and cells utilize competing pathways to move in opposite directions in an electric field." Curr Biol 23(7): 569-574.
	Sensing of an electric field (EF) by cells-galvanotaxis-is important in wound healing [1], development [2], cell division, nerve growth, and angiogenesis [3]. Different cell types migrate in opposite directions in EFs [4], and the same cell can switch the directionality depending on conditions [5]. A tug-of-war mechanism between multiple signaling pathways [6] can direct Dictyostelium cells to either cathode or anode. Mechanics of motility is simplest in fish keratocytes, so we turned to keratocytes to investigate their migration in EFs. Keratocytes sense electric fields and migrate to the cathode [7, 8]. Keratocyte fragments [9, 10] are the simplest motile units. Cell fragments from leukocytes are able to respond to chemotactic signals [11], but whether cell fragments are galvanotactic was unknown. We found that keratocyte fragments are the smallest motile electric field-sensing unit: they migrate to the anode, in the opposite direction of whole cells. Myosin II was essential for the direction sensing of fragments but not for parental cells, while PI3 kinase was essential for the direction sensing of whole cells but not for fragments. Thus, two signal transduction pathways, one depending on PI3K, another on myosin, compete to orient motile cells in the electric field. Galvanotaxis is not due to EF force and does not depend on cell or fragment size. We propose a "compass" model according to which protrusive and contractile actomyosin networks self-polarize to the front and rear of the motile cell, respectively, and the electric signal orients both networks toward cathode with different strengths.

Sun, T., et al. (2013). "Glycogen Synthase Kinase 3 influences cell motility and chemotaxis by regulating PI3K membrane localization in Dictyostelium." Dev Growth Differ 55(8): 723-734.
	Glycogen Synthase Kinase 3 (GSK3) is a multifunctional kinase involved in diverse cellular activities such as metabolism, differentiation, and morphogenesis. Recent studies showed that GSK3 in Dictyostelium affects chemotaxis via TorC2 pathway and Daydreamer. Now we report that GSK3 affects PI3K membrane localization, of which the mechanism has remained to be fully understood in Dictyostelium. The membrane localization domain (LD) of Phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase 1 (PI3K1) is phosphorylated on serine residues in a GSK3 dependent mechanism and PI3K1-LD exhibited biased membrane localization in gsk3(-) cells compared to the wild type cells. Furthermore, multiple GSK3-phosphorylation consensus sites exist in PI3K1-LD, of which phosphomimetic substitutions restored cAMP induced transient membrane localization of PI3K1-LD in gsk3(-) cells. Serine to alanine substitution mutants of PI3K1-LD, in contrast, displayed constitutive membrane localization in wild type cells. Biochemical analysis revealed that GSK3 dependent serine phosphorylation of PI3K1-LD is constitutive during the course of cAMP stimulation. Together, these data suggest that GSK3 dependent serine phosphorylation is a prerequisite for chemoattractant cAMP induced PI3K membrane localization.

Stallforth, P., et al. (2013). "A bacterial symbiont is converted from an inedible producer of beneficial molecules into food by a single mutation in the gacA gene." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 110(36): 14528-14533.
	Stable multipartite mutualistic associations require that all partners benefit. We show that a single mutational step is sufficient to turn a symbiotic bacterium from an inedible but host-beneficial secondary metabolite producer into a host food source. The bacteria's host is a "farmer" clone of the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum that carries and disperses bacteria during its spore stage. Associated with the farmer are two strains of Pseudomonas fluorescens, only one of which serves as a food source. The other strain produces diffusible small molecules: pyrrolnitrin, a known antifungal agent, and a chromene that potently enhances the farmer's spore production and depresses a nonfarmer's spore production. Genome sequence and phylogenetic analyses identify a derived point mutation in the food strain that generates a premature stop codon in a global activator (gacA), encoding the response regulator of a two-component regulatory system. Generation of a knockout mutant of this regulatory gene in the nonfood bacterial strain altered its secondary metabolite profile to match that of the food strain, and also, independently, converted it into a food source. These results suggest that a single mutation in an inedible ancestral strain that served a protective role converted it to a "domesticated" food source.

Sriskanthadevan, S., et al. (2013). "Ca(2+) -calmodulin interacts with DdCAD-1 and promotes DdCAD-1 transport by contractile vacuoles in Dictyostelium cells." Febs j 280(8): 1795-1806.
	The Ca(2+) -dependent cell-cell adhesion molecule DdCAD-1, encoded by the cadA gene of Dictyostelium discoideum, is synthesized at the onset of development as a soluble protein and then transported to the plasma membrane by contractile vacuoles. Calmodulin associates with contractile vacuoles in a Ca(2+) -dependent manner, and co-localizes with DdCAD-1 on the surface of contractile vacuoles. Bioinformatics analysis revealed multiple calmodulin-binding motifs in DdCAD-1. Co-immunoprecipitation and pull-down studies showed that only Ca(2+) -bound calmodulin was able to bind DdCAD-1. Structural integrity of DdCAD-1, but not the native conformation, was required for its interaction with calmodulin. To investigate the role of calmodulin in the import of DdCAD-1 into contractile vacuoles, an in vitro import assay consisting of contractile vacuoles derived from cadA(-) cells and recombinant proteins was employed. Prior stripping of the bound calmodulin from contractile vacuoles by EGTA impaired import of DdCAD-1, which was restored by addition of exogenous calmodulin. The calmodulin antagonists W-7 and compound 48/80 blocked the binding of calmodulin onto stripped contractile vacuoles, and inhibited the import of DdCAD-1. Together, the data show that calmodulin forms a complex with DdCAD-1 and promotes the docking and import of DdCAD-1 into contractile vacuoles. STRUCTURED DIGITAL ABSTRACT: CaM physically interacts with DdCAD-1 by pull down (View Interaction: 1, 2) DdCAD-1 binds to CaM by far western blotting (View interaction) DdCAD-1 physically interacts with CaM by anti bait coimmunoprecipitation (View interaction).

Srinivasan, K., et al. (2013). "Delineating the core regulatory elements crucial for directed cell migration by examining folic-acid-mediated responses." J Cell Sci 126(Pt 1): 221-233.
	Dictyostelium discoideum shows chemotaxis towards folic acid (FA) throughout vegetative growth, and towards cAMP during development. We determined the spatiotemporal localization of cytoskeletal and signaling molecules and investigated the FA-mediated responses in a number of signaling mutants to further our understanding of the core regulatory elements that are crucial for cell migration. Proteins enriched in the pseudopods during chemotaxis also relocalize transiently to the plasma membrane during uniform FA stimulation. In contrast, proteins that are absent from the pseudopods during migration redistribute transiently from the PM to the cytosol when cells are globally stimulated with FA. These chemotactic responses to FA were also examined in cells lacking the GTPases Ras C and G. Although Ras and phosphoinositide 3-kinase activity were significantly decreased in Ras G and Ras C/G nulls, these mutants still migrated towards FA, indicating that other pathways must support FA-mediated chemotaxis. We also examined the spatial movements of PTEN in response to uniform FA and cAMP stimulation in phospholipase C (PLC) null cells. The lack of PLC strongly influences the localization of PTEN in response to FA, but not cAMP. In addition, we compared the gradient-sensing behavior of polarized cells migrating towards cAMP to that of unpolarized cells migrating towards FA. The majority of polarized cells make U-turns when the cAMP gradient is switched from the front of the cell to the rear. Conversely, unpolarized cells immediately extend pseudopods towards the new FA source. We also observed that plasma membrane phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate [PtdIns(3,4,5)P3] levels oscillate in unpolarized cells treated with Latrunculin-A, whereas polarized cells had stable plasma membrane PtdIns(3,4,5)P3 responses toward the chemoattractant gradient source. Results were similar for cells that were starved for 4 hours, with a mixture of polarized and unpolarized cells responding to cAMP. Taken together, these findings suggest that similar components control gradient sensing during FA- and cAMP-mediated motility, but the response of polarized cells is more stable, which ultimately helps maintain their directionality.

Sonowal, R., et al. (2013). "Hydrolysis of aromatic beta-glucosides by non-pathogenic bacteria confers a chemical weapon against predators." Proc Biol Sci 280(1762): 20130721.
	Bacteria present in natural environments such as soil have evolved multiple strategies to escape predation. We report that natural isolates of Enterobacteriaceae that actively hydrolyze plant-derived aromatic beta-glucosides such as salicin, arbutin and esculin, are able to avoid predation by the bacteriovorous amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum and nematodes of multiple genera belonging to the family Rhabditidae. This advantage can be observed under laboratory culture conditions as well as in the soil environment. The aglycone moiety released by the hydrolysis of beta-glucosides is toxic to predators and acts via the dopaminergic receptor Dop-1 in the case of Caenorhabditis elegans. While soil isolates of nematodes belonging to the family Rhabditidae are repelled by the aglycone, laboratory strains and natural isolates of Caenorhabditis sp. are attracted to the compound, mediated by receptors that are independent of Dop-1, leading to their death. The beta-glucosides-positive (Bgl(+)) bacteria that are otherwise non-pathogenic can obtain additional nutrients from the dead predators, thereby switching their role from prey to predator. This study also offers an evolutionary explanation for the retention by bacteria of 'cryptic' or 'silent' genetic systems such as the bgl operon.

Snyder, M. L. (2013). "Bacterial discrimination: Dictyostelium's discerning taste." Curr Biol 23(10): R443-446.
	New research indicates that the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum recognizes distinctions between Gram(-) and Gram(+) bacterial prey and responds discriminately to these two groups of bacteria. These findings may lend insight to the origins of microbial pattern recognition in innate immunity.

Smolarkiewicz, M., et al. (2013). "The very many faces of presenilins and the gamma-secretase complex." Protoplasma 250(5): 997-1011.
	Presenilin is a central, catalytic component of the gamma-secretase complex which conducts intramembrane cleavage of various protein substrates. Although identified and mainly studied through its role in the development of amyloid plaques in Alzheimer disease, gamma-secretase has many other important functions. The complex seems to be evolutionary conserved throughout the Metazoa, but recent findings in plants and Dictyostelium discoideum as well as in archeons suggest that its evolution and functions might be much more diversified than previously expected. In this review, a selective survey of the multitude of functions of presenilins and the gamma-secretase complex is presented. Following a brief overview of gamma-secretase structure, assembly and maturation, three functional aspects are analyzed: (1) the role of gamma-secretase in autophagy and phagocytosis; (2) involvement of the complex in signaling related to endocytosis; and (3) control of calcium fluxes by presenilins.

Sivaramakrishnan, V. and S. J. Fountain (2013). "Intracellular P2X receptors as novel calcium release channels and modulators of osmoregulation in Dictyostelium: a comparison of two common laboratory strains." Channels (Austin) 7(1): 43-46.
	P2X receptors are calcium permeable ligand-gated ion channels activated by ATP. Their role as cell surface receptors for extracellular ATP released physiologically by mammalian cells is well established. However, the cellular function of P2X receptor subtypes that populate the membranes of intracellular compartments is not defined. An initial report described how intracellular P2X receptors control the function of the contractile vacuole, an osmoregulatory organelle in Dictyostelium and other protists, and that genetic disruption of P2X receptors severely impaired cell volume control during hypotonic stress. However, later studies refuted a functional role of intracellular P2X receptors in Dictyostelium. Here we provide evidence that the discrepancies reported between the studies are due to the laboratory strain of Dictyostelium employed, which display different phenotypes in response to hypotonic stress and a varied dependency upon P2X receptors for osmoregulation. We use the recent discovery that intracellular P2X receptors are novel calcium release channels to provide some mechanistic insight in an effort to explain why the strain variance may exist.

Singleton, C. K. and Y. Xiong (2013). "Loss of the histidine kinase DhkD results in mobile mounds during development of Dictyostelium discoideum." PLoS One 8(9): e75618.
	BACKGROUND: Histidine kinases are receptors for sensing cellular and environmental signals, and in response to the appropriate cue they initiate phosphorelays that regulate the activity of response regulators. The Dictyostelium discoideum genome encodes 15 histidine kinases that function to regulate several processes during the multicellular developmental program, including the slug to culmination transition, osmoregulation, and spore differentiation. While there are many histidine kinases, there is only a single response regulator, RegA. Not surprisingly given the ubiquitous involvement of cAMP in numerous processes of development in Dictyostelium, RegA is a cAMP phosphodiesterase that is activated upon receiving phosphates through a phosphorelay. Hence, all of the histidine kinases characterized to date regulate developmental processes through modulating cAMP production. Here we investigate the function of the histidine kinase DhkD. PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: The dhkD gene was disrupted, and the resulting cells when developed gave a novel phenotype. Upon aggregation, which occurred without streaming, the mounds were motile, a phenotype termed the pollywog stage. The pollywog phenotype was dependent on a functional RegA. After a period of random migration, the pollywogs attempted to form fingers but mostly generated aberrant structures with no tips. While prestalk and prespore cell differentiation occurred with normal timing, proper patterning did not occur. In contrast, wild type mounds are not motile, and the cAMP chemotactic movement of cells within the mound facilitates proper prestalk and prespore patterning, tip formation, and the vertical elongation of the mound into a finger. CONCLUSIONS: We postulate that DhkD functions to ensure the proper cAMP distribution within mounds that in turn results in patterning, tip formation and the transition of mounds to fingers. In the absence of DhkD, aberrant cell movements in response to an altered cAMP distribution result in mound migration, a lack of proper patterning, and an inability to generate normal finger morphology.

Shibata, T., et al. (2013). "Intracellular encoding of spatiotemporal guidance cues in a self-organizing signaling system for chemotaxis in Dictyostelium cells." Biophys J 105(9): 2199-2209.
	Even in the absence of guidance cues, chemotactic cells are often spontaneously motile, which should accompany a spontaneous symmetry breaking inside the cells. A shallow chemoattractant gradient can induce these cells to move directionally without much change in cell morphology. As the gradient becomes steeper, the accuracy of chemotaxis increases. It is not clear how the steepness is expressed or encoded internally in the signaling network, which in turn coordinately activates the motile apparatus for chemotaxis. In Dictyostelium cells, self-organizing polarization activities in the signaling network have been reported. In this paper, we conducted a theoretical study of the response of this self-organizing system to guidance cues. Our analyses indicate that self-organizing systems respond sharply to a shallow external gradient by increasing the precision of polarity direction and modulating the frequency of self-polarization. We also show how the precision increase and frequency modulation are achieved. Our results indicate that self-organizing activity, independent of external cues, is the basis for the sensitive and robust response to shallow gradients. Finally, we show that the system can sense the direction of space-time waves of a stimulus, for which Dictyostelium cells exhibit chemotaxis in the developmental process.

Shevchuk, O. and M. Steinert (2013). "Isolation of pathogen-containing vacuoles." Methods Mol Biol 983: 419-429.
	Dictyostelium discoideum cells are "professional phagocytes," as they ingest a large variety of bacteria, yeast, and inert particles. Several bacterial pathogens are able to survive intracellularly within specialized vacuoles of D. discoideum by interfering with host signaling pathways. To better understand the molecular mechanisms underlying these evolutionary conserved processes we have established a method for the isolation of pathogen-containing vacuoles (PCVs). The isolation protocol describes the infection of D. discoideum cells with the intracellular pathogen Legionella pneumophila, loading of the lysosomal compartment with colloidal iron, mechanical lysis of host cells, iodophenylnitrophenyltetrazolium (INT) heavy labeling of mitochondria, removal of nucleic acid by Benzonase treatment, separation of nuclei by low-speed centrifugation, and the magnetic removal of lysosomes. The subcellular fractionation in a discontinuous sucrose density OptiPrep gradient allows the separation of mitochondria and to prepare PCVs with high purity. The proteins isolated from PCVs have been successfully subjected to mass spectrometry and allowed to analyze pathogen-directed maturation processes of vacuoles. The method can also be applied for subsequent protein modification analyses and lipidome comparisons.

Senoo, H., et al. (2013). "A new kind of membrane-tethered eukaryotic transcription factor that shares an auto-proteolytic processing mechanism with bacteriophage tail-spike proteins." J Cell Sci 126(Pt 22): 5247-5258.
	MrfA, a transcription factor that regulates Dictyostelium prestalk cell differentiation, is an orthologue of the metazoan myelin gene regulatory factor (MRF) proteins. We show that the MRFs contain a predicted transmembrane domain, suggesting that they are synthesised as membrane-tethered proteins that are then proteolytically released. We confirm this for MrfA but report a radically different mode of processing from that of paradigmatic tethered transcriptional regulators, which are cleaved within the transmembrane domain by a dedicated protease. Instead, an auto-proteolytic cleavage mechanism, previously only described for the intramolecular chaperone domains of bacteriophage tail-spike proteins, processes MrfA and, by implication, the metazoan MRF proteins. We also present evidence that the auto-proteolysis of MrfA occurs rapidly and constitutively in the ER and that its specific role in prestalk cell differentiation is conferred by the regulated nuclear translocation of the liberated fragment.

Segota, I., et al. (2013). "High fidelity information processing in folic acid chemotaxis of Dictyostelium amoebae." J R Soc Interface 10(88): 20130606.
	Living cells depend upon the detection of chemical signals for their existence. Eukaryotic cells can sense a concentration difference as low as a few per cent across their bodies. This process was previously suggested to be limited by the receptor-ligand binding fluctuations. Here, we first determine the chemotaxis response of Dictyostelium cells to static folic acid gradients and show that they can significantly exceed this sensitivity, responding to gradients as shallow as 0.2% across the cell body. Second, using a previously developed information theory framework, we compare the total information gained about the gradient (based on the cell response) to its upper limit: the information gained at the receptor-ligand binding step. We find that the model originally applied to cAMP sensing fails as demonstrated by the violation of the data processing inequality, i.e. the total information exceeds the information at the receptor-ligand binding step. We propose an extended model with multiple known receptor types and with cells allowed to perform several independent measurements of receptor occupancy. This does not violate the data processing inequality and implies the receptor-ligand binding noise dominates both for low- and high-chemoattractant concentrations. We also speculate that the interplay between exploration and exploitation is used as a strategy for accurate sensing of otherwise unmeasurable levels of a chemoattractant.

Schmith, A., et al. (2013). "Conserved gene regulatory function of the carboxy-terminal domain of dictyostelid C-module-binding factor." Eukaryot Cell 12(3): 460-468.
	C-module-binding factor A (CbfA) is a jumonji-type transcription regulator that is important for maintaining the expression and mobility of the retrotransposable element TRE5-A in the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum. CbfA-deficient cells have lost TRE5-A retrotransposition, are impaired in the ability to feed on bacteria, and do not enter multicellular development because of a block in cell aggregation. In this study, we performed Illumina RNA-seq of growing CbfA mutant cells to obtain a list of CbfA-regulated genes. We demonstrate that the carboxy-terminal domain of CbfA alone is sufficient to mediate most CbfA-dependent gene expression. The carboxy-terminal domain of CbfA from the distantly related social amoeba Polysphondylium pallidum restored the expression of CbfA-dependent genes in the D. discoideum CbfA mutant, indicating a deep conservation in the gene regulatory function of this domain in the dictyostelid clade. The CbfA-like protein CbfB displays approximately 25% sequence identity with CbfA in the amino-terminal region, which contains a JmjC domain and two zinc finger regions and is thought to mediate chromatin-remodeling activity. In contrast to CbfA proteins, where the carboxy-terminal domains are strictly conserved in all dictyostelids, CbfB proteins have completely unrelated carboxy-terminal domains. Outside the dictyostelid clade, CbfA-like proteins with the CbfA-archetypical JmjC/zinc finger arrangement and individual carboxy-terminal domains are prominent in filamentous fungi but are not found in yeasts, plants, and metazoans. Our data suggest that two functional regions of the CbfA-like proteins evolved at different rates to allow the occurrence of species-specific adaptation processes during genome evolution.

Schilde, C. and P. Schaap (2013). "The Amoebozoa." Methods Mol Biol 983: 1-15.
	The model organism Dictyostelium discoideum is a member of the Amoebozoa, one of the six major -divisions of eukaryotes. Amoebozoa comprise a wide variety of amoeboid and flagellate organisms with single cells measuring from 5 mum to several meters across. They have adopted many different life styles and sexual behaviors and can live in all but the most extreme environments. This chapter provides an overview of Amoebozoan diversity and compares roads towards multicellularity within the Amoebozoa with inventions of multicellularity in other protist divisions. The chapter closes with a scenario for the evolution of Dictyostelid multicellularity from an Amoebozoan stress response.

Scherr, N., et al. (2013). "Structure-activity relationship studies on the macrolide exotoxin mycolactone of Mycobacterium ulcerans." PLoS Negl Trop Dis 7(3): e2143.
	BACKGROUND: Mycolactones are a family of polyketide-derived macrolide exotoxins produced by Mycobacterium ulcerans, the causative agent of the chronic necrotizing skin disease Buruli ulcer. The toxin is synthesized by polyketide synthases encoded by the virulence plasmid pMUM. The apoptotic, necrotic and immunosuppressive properties of mycolactones play a central role in the pathogenesis of M. ulcerans. METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We have synthesized and tested a series of mycolactone derivatives to conduct structure-activity relationship studies. Flow cytometry, fluorescence microscopy and Alamar Blue-based metabolic assays were used to assess activities of mycolactones on the murine L929 fibroblast cell line. Modifications of the C-linked upper side chain (comprising C12-C20) caused less pronounced changes in cytotoxicity than modifications in the lower C5-O-linked polyunsaturated acyl side chain. A derivative with a truncated lower side chain was unique in having strong inhibitory effects on fibroblast metabolism and cell proliferation at non-cytotoxic concentrations. We also tested whether mycolactones have antimicrobial activity and found no activity against representatives of Gram-positive (Streptococcus pneumoniae) or Gram-negative bacteria (Neisseria meningitis and Escherichia coli), the fungus Saccharomyces cerevisae or the amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum. CONCLUSION: Highly defined synthetic compounds allowed to unambiguously compare biological activities of mycolactones expressed by different M. ulcerans lineages and may help identifying target structures and triggering pathways.

Schafer, E., et al. (2013). "Chemotaxis of Dictyostelium discoideum: collective oscillation of cellular contacts." PLoS One 8(1): e54172.
	Chemotactic responses of Dictyostelium discoideum cells to periodic self-generated signals of extracellular cAMP comprise a large number of intricate morphological changes on different length scales. Here, we scrutinized chemotaxis of single Dictyostelium discoideum cells under conditions of starvation using a variety of optical, electrical and acoustic methods. Amebas were seeded on gold electrodes displaying impedance oscillations that were simultaneously analyzed by optical video microscopy to relate synchronous changes in cell density, morphology, and distance from the surface to the transient impedance signal. We found that starved amebas periodically reduce their overall distance from the surface producing a larger impedance and higher total fluorescence intensity in total internal reflection fluorescence microscopy. Therefore, we propose that the dominant sources of the observed impedance oscillations observed on electric cell-substrate impedance sensing electrodes are periodic changes of the overall cell-substrate distance of a cell. These synchronous changes of the cell-electrode distance were also observed in the oscillating signal of acoustic resonators covered with amebas. We also found that periodic cell-cell aggregation into transient clusters correlates with changes in the cell-substrate distance and might also contribute to the impedance signal. It turned out that cell-cell contacts as well as cell-substrate contacts form synchronously during chemotaxis of Dictyostelium discoideum cells.

Schafer, E., et al. (2013). "Collective behavior of Dictyostelium discoideum monitored by impedance analysis." Commun Integr Biol 6(3): e23894.
	Dictyostelium discoideum cells respond to periodic signals of extracellular cAMP by collective changes of cell-cell and cell-substrate contacts. This was confirmed by dielectric analysis employing electric cell-substrate impedance sensing (ECIS) and impedance measurements involving cell-filled micro channels in conjunction with optical microscopy providing a comprehensive picture of chemotaxis under conditions of starvation.

Sato, Y. G., et al. (2013). "Steely enzymes are involved in prestalk and prespore pattern formation." Biosci Biotechnol Biochem 77(10): 2008-2012.
	4-Methyl-5-pentylbenzene-1,3-diol (MPBD), a product of SteelyA enzyme, controls Dictyostelium spore maturation. Since the expression of stlA split the in early and terminal stages, we cannot exclude the possibility that MPBD regulates spore differentiation from the early stage by creating a bias between the cells. 1-(3,5-Dichloro-2,6-dihydroxy-4-methoxyphenyl) hexan-1-on (DIF-1), a product of SteelyB, was identified as the major stalk cell inducer by in vitro assay, but in vivo assay revealed that DIF-1 induces only prestalkB (pstB) and prestalkO (pstO) cells and, that the major prestalkA (pstA) cells differentiated without DIF-1. In order to determine mechanism of polyketide regulated pattern formation, we examined the spatial expression patterns of prestalk and prespore markers in stlA and stlB knockout mutants. We found that MPBD regulates spore maturation at the culmination stage. We also found that the stlA and stlB double-knockout mutant lost pstA marker gene expression.

Santorelli, L. A., et al. (2013). "A new social gene in Dictyostelium discoideum, chtB." BMC Evol Biol 13: 4.
	BACKGROUND: Competitive social interactions are ubiquitous in nature, but their genetic basis is difficult to determine. Much can be learned from single gene knockouts in a eukaryote microbe. The mutants can be competed with the parent to discern the social impact of that specific gene. Dictyostelium discoideum is a social amoeba that exhibits cooperative behavior in the construction of a multicellular fruiting body. It is a good model organism to study the genetic basis of cooperation since it has a sequenced genome and it is amenable to genetic manipulation. When two strains of D. discoideum are mixed, a cheater strain can exploit its social partner by differentiating more spore than its fair share relative to stalk cells. Cheater strains can be generated in the lab or found in the wild and genetic analyses have shown that cheating behavior can be achieved through many pathways. RESULTS: We have characterized the knockout mutant chtB, which was isolated from a screen for cheater mutants that were also able to form normal fruiting bodies on their own. When mixed in equal proportions with parental strain cells, chtB mutants contributed almost 60% of the total number of spores. To do so, chtB cells inhibit wild type cells from becoming spores, as indicated by counts and by the wild type cells' reduced expression of the prespore gene, cotB. We found no obvious fitness costs (morphology, doubling time in liquid medium, spore production, and germination efficiency) associated with the cheating ability of the chtB knockout. CONCLUSIONS: In this study we describe a new gene in D. discoideum, chtB, which when knocked out inhibits the parental strain from producing spores. Moreover, under lab conditions, we did not detect any fitness costs associated with this behavior.

Saheb, E., et al. (2013). "An Acanthamoeba castellanii metacaspase associates with the contractile vacuole and functions in osmoregulation." Exp Parasitol 133(3): 314-326.
	Acanthamoeba castellanii is a free-living protozoan. Some strains are opportunistic pathogens. A type-I metacaspase was identified in A. castellanii (Acmcp) and was shown to be expressed through the encystation process. The model organism, Dictyostelium discoideum, has been used here as a model for studying these caspase-like proteins. Separate cell lines expressing a GFP-tagged version of the full length Acmcp protein, as well as a deletion proline region mutant of Acmcp protein (GFP-Acmcp-dpr), have been introduced into D. discoideum. Both mutants affect the cellular metabolism, characterized by an increase in the growth rate. Microscopic imaging revealed an association between Acmcp and the contractile vacuole system in D. discoideum. The treatment of cells with selected inhibitors in different environments added additional support to these findings. This evidence shows that Acmcp plays an important role in contractile vacuole regulation and mediated membrane trafficking in D. discoideum. Additionally, the severe defect in contractile vacuole function in GFP-Acmcp-dpr mutant cells suggests that the proline-rich region in Acmcp has an essential role in binding this protein with other partners to maintain this process. Furthermore, Yeast two-hybrid system identified there are weak interactions of the Dictyostelium contractile vacuolar proteins, including Calmodulin, RabD, Rab11 and vacuolar proton ATPase, with Acmcp protein. Taken together, our findings suggest that A. castellanii metacaspase associate with the contractile vacuole and have an essential role in cell osmoregulation, which contributes to its attractiveness as a possible target for treatment therapies against A. castellanii infection.

Saheb, E., et al. (2013). "A functional connection of Dictyostelium paracaspase with the contractile vacuole and a possible partner of the vacuolar proton ATPase." J Biosci 38(3): 509-521.
	Dictyostelium discoideum possesses only one caspase family member, paracaspase (pcp). Two separate mutant cell lines were first analysed: one cell line was an over-expressed GFP-tagged Pcp (GFP-Pcp), while the other cell line was a pcp-null (pcp-). Microscopic analysis of cells expressing GFP-Pcp revealed that Pcp was associated with the contractile vacuole membrane consisting of bladder-like vacuoles. This association was disrupted when cells were exposed to osmotic stress conditions. Compared with wild-type cells, the GFP-Pcp-over-expressing cells were susceptible to osmotic stress and were seen to be very rounded in hypo-osmotic conditions and contained more abnormally swollen contractile vacuole. Cells with pcp- were also rounded but had few, if any, contractile vacuoles. These observations suggest that Pcp is essential for Dictyostelium osmotic regulation via its functioning in the contractile vacuole system. Subjecting these cells to selected contractile vacuole inhibitor provided additional support for these findings. Furthermore, yeast two-hybrid system identified vacuolar proton ATPase (VatM) as the protein interacting with Pcp. Taken together, this work gives evidence for an eukaryotic paracaspase to be associated with both localization in and regulation of the contractile vacuolar system, an organelle critical for maintaining the normal morphology of the cell.

Rodriguez-Ruiz, A., et al. (2013). "Dictyostelium discoideum developmental cycle (DDDC) assay: a tool for Hg toxicity assessment and soil health screening." Sci Total Environ 450-451: 39-50.
	The social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum has been proposed for assessing stress responses to pollutants in soil and it has already been successfully employed in the aquatic environment. Presently, we developed the DDDC assay (D. discoideum developmental cycle assay) for both soil toxicity assessment and soil health screening. The DDDC assay is primarily aimed at determining the capacity of D. discoideum to undergo its developmental programme forming a fruiting body, measured in terms of fruiting body formation inhibition and fruiting body size factor, which may be considered an indication of its ecological fitness (potential for spore dispersal). A second objective of the solid phase DDDC assay is to identify potential mechanisms of toxic action on the developmental cycle, for which three checkpoints are examined: (a) aggregation arrest, (b) migration arrest, and (c) culmination arrest. Presently, conditions for the DDDC assay such as soil texture, soil water content, soil pH, food availability and incubation time were investigated and optimized. In addition, both solid and liquid phase variants of the DDDC assay were applied to assess the toxicity of Hg, at regulatory concentrations. The developmental cycle and ecological fitness were affected from the exposure to 0.3 mg Hg/kg dry-wt soil onwards. The DDDC assay has been shown to be a high sensitivity test.

Robery, S., et al. (2013). "A novel human receptor involved in bitter tastant detection identified using Dictyostelium discoideum." J Cell Sci 126(Pt 23): 5465-5476.
	Detection of substances tasting bitter to humans occurs in diverse organisms including the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum. To establish a molecular mechanism for bitter tastant detection in Dictyostelium, we screened a mutant library for resistance to a commonly used bitter standard, phenylthiourea. This approach identified a G-protein-coupled receptor mutant, grlJ(-), which showed a significantly increased tolerance to phenylthiourea in growth, survival and movement. This mutant was not resistant to a structurally dissimilar potent bitter tastant, denatonium benzoate, suggesting it is not a target for at least one other bitter tastant. Analysis of the cell-signalling pathway involved in the detection of phenylthiourea showed dependence upon heterotrimeric G protein and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase activity, suggesting that this signalling pathway is responsible for the cellular effects of phenylthiourea. This is further supported by a phenylthiourea-dependent block in the transient cAMP-induced production of phosphatidylinositol (3,4,5)-trisphosphate (PIP3) in wild-type but not grlJ(-) cells. Finally, we have identified an uncharacterized human protein gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) type B receptor subunit 1 isoform with weak homology to GrlJ that restored grlJ(-) sensitivity to phenylthiourea in cell movement and PIP3 regulation. Our results thus identify a novel pathway for the detection of the standard bitter tastant phenylthiourea in Dictyostelium and implicate a poorly characterized human protein in phenylthiourea-dependent cell responses.

Rai, A., et al. (2013). "Functional dissection of the dictyostelium discoideum dynamin B mitochondrial targeting sequence." PLoS One 8(2): e56975.
	Most mitochondrial proteins are nuclear encoded and synthesized in the cytosol with an N-terminal mitochondrial targeting sequence or presequence for subsequent import into mitochondria. Here, we describe the proteolytic processing and inner membrane potential-dependent translocation of a dynamin family member by the Dictyostelium discoideum mitochondrial import system. Our results show that the unusual D. discoideum dynamin B presequence is removed through a processing mechanism that is common for mitochondrial matrix proteins. We identified a minimal segment of the dynamin B presequence containing seven lysine residues. This 47-residue region is, in combination with consensus matrix protease cleavage sites, necessary and sufficient for mitochondrial targeting. The correct positioning of these lysine residues plays a critical role for the proper processing and mitochondrial import of dynamin B in D. discoideum. Fluorescent proteins tagged with the dynamin B presequence or presequence regions supporting mitochondrial import in D. discoideum are imported with similar efficiency into the mitochondrial matrix of mammalian cells, indicating that the basic mechanisms underlying mitochondrial protein import are highly conserved from amoebozoa to mammalia.

Plattner, H. (2013). "Contractile vacuole complex--its expanding protein inventory." Int Rev Cell Mol Biol 306: 371-416.
	The contractile vacuole complex (CVC) of some protists serves for the osmotic equilibration of water and ions, notably Ca(2+), by chemiosmotic exploitation of a H(+) gradient generated by the organelle-resident V-type H(+)-ATPase. Ca(2+) is mostly extruded, but there is also some reflux into the cytosol via Ca(2+)-release channels. Most data available are from Dictyostelium and Paramecium. In Paramecium, the major parts of CVC contain several v-/R-SNARE (synaptobrevins) and t-/Q-SNARE (syntaxins) proteins. This is complemented by Rab-type GTPases (shown in Tetrahymena) and exocyst components (Chlamydomonas). All this reflects a multitude of membrane interactions and fusion processes. Ca(2+)/H(+) and other exchangers are to be postulated, as are aquaporins and mechanosensitive Ca(2+) channels. From the complexity of the organelle, many more proteins may be expected. For instance, the pore is endowed with its own set of proteins. We may now envisage the regulation of membrane dynamics (reversible tubulation) and the epigenetic control of organelle shape, size and positioning. New aspects about organelle function and biogenesis are sketched in Section 7. The manifold regulators currently known from CVC suggest the cooperation of widely different mechanisms to maintain its dynamic function and to drive its biogenesis.

Platt, J. L., et al. (2013). "Different CHD chromatin remodelers are required for expression of distinct gene sets and specific stages during development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Development 140(24): 4926-4936.
	Control of chromatin structure is crucial for multicellular development and regulation of cell differentiation. The CHD (chromodomain-helicase-DNA binding) protein family is one of the major ATP-dependent, chromatin remodeling factors that regulate nucleosome positioning and access of transcription factors and RNA polymerase to the eukaryotic genome. There are three mammalian CHD subfamilies and their impaired functions are associated with several human diseases. Here, we identify three CHD orthologs (ChdA, ChdB and ChdC) in Dictyostelium discoideum. These CHDs are expressed throughout development, but with unique patterns. Null mutants lacking each CHD have distinct phenotypes that reflect their expression patterns and suggest functional specificity. Accordingly, using genome-wide (RNA-seq) transcriptome profiling for each null strain, we show that the different CHDs regulate distinct gene sets during both growth and development. ChdC is an apparent ortholog of the mammalian Class III CHD group that is associated with the human CHARGE syndrome, and GO analyses of aberrant gene expression in chdC nulls suggest defects in both cell-autonomous and non-autonomous signaling, which have been confirmed through analyses of chdC nulls developed in pure populations or with low levels of wild-type cells. This study provides novel insight into the broad function of CHDs in the regulation development and disease, through chromatin-mediated changes in directed gene expression.

Plak, K., et al. (2013). "GxcC connects Rap and Rac signaling during Dictyostelium development." BMC Cell Biol 14: 6.
	BACKGROUND: Rap proteins belong to the Ras family of small G-proteins. Dictyostelium RapA is essential and implicated in processes throughout the life cycle. In early development and chemotaxis competent cells RapA induces pseudopod formation by activating PI3K and it regulates substrate attachment and myosin disassembly via the serine/threonine kinase Phg2. RapA is also important in late development, however so far little is known about the downstream effectors of RapA that play a role in this process. RESULTS: Here we show that cells expressing constitutively active RapA exhibit a high level of Rac activation. With a pull-down screen coupled to mass spectrometry, we identified the Rac specific guanine nucleotide exchange factor, GxcC, as Rap binding partner. GxcC binds directly and specifically to active RapA and binds to a subset of Dictyostelium Rac proteins. Deletion studies revealed that this pathway is involved in regulating Dictyostelium development. CONCLUSIONS: GxcC provides a novel link between Rap and Rac signalling and is one of the Rap effectors regulating the progression of multicellular development.

Pfannes, E. K., et al. (2013). "Intracellular photoactivation of caged cGMP induces myosin II and actin responses in motile cells." Integr Biol (Camb) 5(12): 1456-1463.
	Cyclic GMP (cGMP) is a ubiquitous second messenger in eukaryotic cells. It is assumed to regulate the association of myosin II with the cytoskeleton of motile cells. When cells of the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum are exposed to chemoattractants or to increased osmotic stress, intracellular cGMP levels rise, preceding the accumulation of myosin II in the cell cortex. To directly investigate the impact of intracellular cGMP on cytoskeletal dynamics in a living cell, we released cGMP inside the cell by laser-induced photo-cleavage of a caged precursor. With this approach, we could directly show in a live cell experiment that an increase in intracellular cGMP indeed induces myosin II to accumulate in the cortex. Unexpectedly, we observed for the first time that also the amount of filamentous actin in the cell cortex increases upon a rise in the cGMP concentration, independently of cAMP receptor activation and signaling. We discuss our results in the light of recent work on the cGMP signaling pathway and suggest possible links between cGMP signaling and the actin system.

Peracino, B., et al. (2013). "The Nramp (Slc11) proteins regulate development, resistance to pathogenic bacteria and iron homeostasis in Dictyostelium discoideum." J Cell Sci 126(Pt 1): 301-311.
	The Dictyostelium discoideum genome harbors two genes encoding members of the Nramp superfamily, which is conserved from bacteria (MntH proteins) to humans (Slc11 proteins). Nramps are proton-driven metal ion transporters with a preference for iron and manganese. Acquisition of these metal cations is vital for all cells, as they act as redox cofactors and regulate key cellular processes, such as DNA synthesis, electron transport, energy metabolism and oxidative stress. Dictyostelium Nramp1 (Slc11a1), like its mammalian ortholog, mediates resistance to infection by invasive bacteria. We have extended the analysis to the nramp2 gene, by generating single and double nramp1/nramp2 knockout mutants and cells expressing GFP fusion proteins. In contrast to Nramp1, which is recruited to phagosomes and macropinosomes, the Nramp2 protein is localized exclusively in the membrane of the contractile vacuole, a vesicular tubular network regulating cellular osmolarity. Both proteins colocalize with the V-H(+)-ATPase, which can provide the electrogenic force for vectorial transport. Like nramp1, nramp2 gene disruption affects resistance to Legionella pneumophila. Disrupting both genes additionally leads to defects in development, with strong delay in cell aggregation, formation of large streams and multi-tipped aggregates. Single and double mutants display differential sensitivity to cell growth under conditions of iron overload or depletion. The data favor the hypothesis that Nramp1 and Nramp2, under control of the V-H(+)-ATPase, synergistically regulate iron homeostasis, with the contractile vacuole possibly acting as a store for metal cations.

Park, S. O., et al. (2013). "Tetrahydropteridines possess antioxidant roles to guard against glucose-induced oxidative stress in Dictyostelium discoideum." BMB Rep 46(2): 86-91.
	Glucose effects on the vegetative growth of Dictyostelium discoideum Ax2 were studied by examining oxidative stress and tetrahydropteridine synthesis in cells cultured with different concentrations (0.5X, 7.7 g L(-1); 1X, 15.4 g L(-1); 2X, 30.8 g L(-1)) of glucose. The growth rate was optimal in 1X cells (cells grown in 1X glucose) but was impaired drastically in 2X cells, below the level of 0.5X cells. There were glucose-dependent increases in reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels and mitochondrial dysfunction in parallel with the mRNA copy numbers of the enzymes catalyzing tetrahydropteridine synthesis and regeneration. On the other hand, both the specific activities of the enzymes and tetrahydropteridine levels in 2X cells were lower than those in 1X cells, but were higher than those in 0.5X cells. Given the antioxidant function of tetrahydropteridines and both the beneficial and harmful effects of ROS, the results suggest glucose-induced oxidative stress in Dictyostelium, a process that might originate from aerobic glycolysis, as well as a protective role of tetrahydropteridines against this stress.

Park, L., et al. (2013). "Cyclical action of the WASH complex: FAM21 and capping protein drive WASH recycling, not initial recruitment." Dev Cell 24(2): 169-181.
	WASH causes actin to polymerize on vesicles involved in retrograde traffic and exocytosis. It is found within a regulatory complex, but the physiological roles of the other four members are unknown. Here we present genetic analysis of the subunits' individual functions in Dictyostelium. Mutants in each subunit are completely blocked in exocytosis. All subunits except FAM21 are required to drive actin assembly on lysosomes. Without actin, lysosomes never recycle vacuolar-type H(+)-adenosine triphosphatase (V-ATPase) or neutralize to form postlysosomes. However, in FAM21 knockout lysosomes, WASH generates excessive, dynamic streams of actin. These successfully remove V-ATPase, neutralize, and form huge postlysosomes. The distinction between WASH and FAM21 phenotypes is conserved in human cells. Thus, FAM21 and WASH act at different steps of a cyclical pathway in which FAM21 mediates recycling of the complex back to acidic lysosomes. Recycling is driven by FAM21's interaction with capping protein, which couples the WASH complex to dynamic actin on vesicles.

Parfrey, L. W. and D. J. Lahr (2013). "Multicellularity arose several times in the evolution of eukaryotes (response to DOI 10.1002/bies.201100187)." Bioessays 35(4): 339-347.
	The cellular slime mold Dictyostelium has cell-cell connections similar in structure, function, and underlying molecular mechanisms to animal epithelial cells. These similarities form the basis for the proposal that multicellularity is ancestral to the clade containing animals, fungi, and Amoebozoa (including Dictyostelium): Amorphea (formerly "unikonts"). This hypothesis is intriguing and if true could precipitate a paradigm shift. However, phylogenetic analyses of two key genes reveal patterns inconsistent with a single origin of multicellularity. A single origin in Amorphea would also require loss of multicellularity in each of the many unicellular lineages within this clade. Further, there are numerous other origins of multicellularity within eukaryotes, including three within Amorphea, that are not characterized by these structural and mechanistic similarities. Instead, convergent evolution resulting from similar selective pressures for forming multicellular structures with motile and differentiated cells is the most likely explanation for the observed similarities between animal and dictyostelid cell-cell connections.

Paquet, V. E., et al. (2013). "Lipid composition of multilamellar bodies secreted by Dictyostelium discoideum reveals their amoebal origin." Eukaryot Cell 12(10): 1326-1334.
	When they are fed with bacteria, Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae produce and secrete multilamellar bodies (MLBs), which are composed of membranous material. It has been proposed that MLBs are a waste disposal system that allows D. discoideum to eliminate undigested bacterial remains. However, the real function of MLBs remains unknown. Determination of the biochemical composition of MLBs, especially lipids, represents a way to gain information about the role of these structures. To allow these analyses, a protocol involving various centrifugation procedures has been developed to purify secreted MLBs from amoeba-bacterium cocultures. The purity of the MLB preparation was confirmed by transmission electron microscopy and by immunofluorescence using H36, an antibody that binds to MLBs. The lipid and fatty acid compositions of pure MLBs were then analyzed by high-performance thin-layer chromatography (HPTLC) and gas chromatography (GC), respectively, and compared to those of amoebae as well as bacteria used as a food source. While the bacteria were devoid of phosphatidylcholine (PC) and phosphatidylinositol (PI), these two polar lipid species were major classes of lipids in MLBs and amoebae. Similarly, the fatty acid composition of MLBs and amoebae was characterized by the presence of polyunsaturated fatty acids, while cyclic fatty acids were found only in bacteria. These results strongly suggest that the lipids constituting the MLBs originate from the amoebal metabolism rather than from undigested bacterial membranes. This opens the possibility that MLBs, instead of being a waste disposal system, have unsuspected roles in D. discoideum physiology.

Pakes, N. K., et al. (2013). "Zizimin and Dock guanine nucleotide exchange factors in cell function and disease." Small GTPases 4(1): 22-27.
	Zizimin proteins belong to the Dock (Dedicator of Cytokinesis) superfamily of Guanine nucleotide Exchange Factor (GEF) proteins. This family of proteins plays a role in the regulation of Rho family small GTPases. Together the Rho family of small GTPases and the Dock/Zizimin proteins play a vital role in a number of cell processes including cell migration, apoptosis, cell division and cell adhesion. Our recent studies of Zizimin proteins, using a simple biomedical model, the eukaryotic social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum, have helped to elucidate the cellular role of these proteins. In this article, we discuss the domain structure of Zizimin proteins from an evolutionary viewpoint. We also compare what is currently known about the mammalian Zizimin proteins to that of related Dock proteins. Understanding the cellular functions of these proteins will provide a better insight into their role in cell signaling, and may help in treating disease pathology associated with mutations in Dock/Zizimin proteins.

O'Day, D. H. and R. J. Huber (2013). "Matricellular signal transduction involving calmodulin in the social amoebozoan dictyostelium." Genes (Basel) 4(1): 33-45.
	The social amoebozoan Dictyostelium discoideum undergoes a developmental sequence wherein an extracellular matrix (ECM) sheath surrounds a group of differentiating cells. This sheath is comprised of proteins and carbohydrates, like the ECM of mammalian tissues. One of the characterized ECM proteins is the cysteine-rich, EGF-like (EGFL) repeat-containing, calmodulin (CaM)-binding protein (CaMBP) CyrA. The first EGFL repeat of CyrA increases the rate of random cell motility and cyclic AMP-mediated chemotaxis. Processing of full-length CyrA (~63 kDa) releases two major EGFL repeat-containing fragments (~45 kDa and ~40 kDa) in an event that is developmentally regulated. Evidence for an EGFL repeat receptor also exists and downstream intracellular signaling pathways involving CaM, Ras, protein kinase A and vinculin B phosphorylation have been characterized. In total, these results identify CyrA as a true matricellular protein comparable in function to tenascin C and other matricellular proteins from mammalian cells. Insight into the regulation and processing of CyrA has also been revealed. CyrA is the first identified extracellular CaMBP in this eukaryotic microbe. In keeping with this, extracellular CaM (extCaM) has been shown to be present in the ECM sheath where it binds to CyrA and inhibits its cleavage to release the 45 kDa and 40 kDa EGFL repeat-containing fragments. The presence of extCaM and its role in regulating a matricellular protein during morphogenesis extends our understanding of CaM-mediated signal transduction in eukaryotes.

Noegel, A. A. and G. Glockner (2013). "Dictyostelium genomics: how it developed and what we have learned from it." Pharmazie 68(7): 474-477.
	Dictyostelium discoideum is the most prominent member of the social amoebae. It has been used as an experimental system since more than 50 years and a large number of scientists worldwide work on different aspects such as chemotaxis, cytoskeleton, differentiation and development. Dictyostelium shares more features with animals than fungi although it diverged much earlier in evolution. Many of the results obtained with D. discoideum can therefore be transferred to animals making D. discoideum a valuable model organism. Targeted gene inactivation using homologous recombination is easy and mutant phenotypes can be readily isolated due to the haploid nature of its genome. Furthermore, a variety of techniques and tools are available that facilitate the experimental work; its genome and that of several Dictyostelidae has been sequenced and most recently a high-resolution genome wide nucleosome map for D. discoideum has been generated.

Navarro, E., et al. (2013). "A white collar 1-like protein mediates opposite regulatory functions in Mucor circinelloides." Fungal Genet Biol 52: 42-52.
	Protein ubiquitylation plays a major role in the regulation of many cellular processes by altering the stability, localization or function of target proteins. CrgA is a protein of Mucor circinelloides that shows the characteristics of ubiquitin ligases and is involved in the regulation of carotenogenesis and asexual sporulation in this fungus. CrgA, which belongs to a poorly characterized group of proteins present in almost all eukaryotes, represses carotenogenesis through the proteolysis-independent mono- and di-ubiquitylation of Mcwc-1b, a White Collar-1-like protein which, when it is non-ubiquitylated, activates carotenogenesis. Using a proteomic approach, this work shows that the regulation of M. circinelloides vegetative development by CrgA is also mediated by Mcwc-1b, although, in this case, the non-ubiquitylated Mcwc-1b form acts as a repressor. High levels of a protein that contains a classical Rossmann-fold NAD(P)H/NAD(P)(+) binding domain for NAD(P)H binding and is similar to NmrA NADP(H) sensor-like proteins occur when Mcwc-1b is inactivated by ubiquitylation. A role for this protein in the regulation of sporulation is suggested because its over-expression suppresses the sporulation defect in a crgADelta mutant. NmrA-like proteins are repressors that interact with GATA transcription factors and have been shown to be related to cell differentiation in Magnaporthe oryzae and Dictyostelium discoideum. This proteomic approach also revealed that CrgA regulates the carbon and energy metabolism and that Mcwc-1b is the main, but not the only, target of CrgA.

Nasser, W., et al. (2013). "Bacterial discrimination by dictyostelid amoebae reveals the complexity of ancient interspecies interactions." Curr Biol 23(10): 862-872.
	BACKGROUND: Amoebae and bacteria interact within predator-prey and host-pathogen relationships, but the general response of amoeba to bacteria is not well understood. The amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum feeds on, and is colonized by, diverse bacterial species, including Gram-positive [Gram(+)] and Gram-negative [Gram(-)] bacteria, two major groups of bacteria that differ in structure and macromolecular composition. RESULTS: Transcriptional profiling of D. discoideum revealed sets of genes whose expression is enriched in amoebae interacting with different species of bacteria, including sets that appear specific to amoebae interacting with Gram(+) or with Gram(-) bacteria. In a genetic screen utilizing the growth of mutant amoebae on a variety of bacteria as a phenotypic readout, we identified amoebal genes that are only required for growth on Gram(+) bacteria, including one that encodes the cell-surface protein gp130, as well as several genes that are only required for growth on Gram(-) bacteria, including one that encodes a putative lysozyme, AlyL. These genes are required for parts of the transcriptional response of wild-type amoebae, and this allowed their classification into potential response pathways. CONCLUSIONS: We have defined genes that are critical for amoebal survival during feeding on Gram(+), or Gram(-), bacteria that we propose form part of a regulatory network that allows D. discoideum to elicit specific cellular responses to different species of bacteria in order to optimize survival.

Nakajima-Shimada, J., et al. (2013). "Derivatives of Dictyostelium discoideum differentiation-inducing factor-3 suppress the activities of Trypanosoma cruzi in vitro and in vivo." Biochem Pharmacol 85(11): 1603-1610.
	Chagas disease (human American trypanosomiasis), which is caused by the protozoan parasite Trypanosoma cruzi, is responsible for numerous deaths each year; however, established treatments for the disease are limited. Differentiation-inducing factor-1 (DIF-1) and DIF-3 are chlorinated alkylphenones originally found in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum that have been shown to possess pharmacological activities. Here, we investigated the effects of DIF-3 derivatives on the infection rate and growth of T. cruzi by using an in vitro assay system utilizing host human fibrosarcoma HT1080 cells. Certain DIF-3 derivatives, such as butoxy-DIF-3 (Bu-DIF-3), at micro-molar levels strongly suppressed both the infection rate and growth of T. cruzi in HT1080 cells and exhibited little toxicity for HT1080 cells. For example, the IC50 of DIF-3 and Bu-DIF-3 versus the growth of T. cruzi in HT1080 cells were 3.95 and 0.72muM, respectively, and the LD50 of the two compounds versus HT1080 cells were both greater than 100muM. We also examined the effects of DIF-3 and Bu-DIF-3 on T. cruzi activity in C57BL/6 mice. Intraperitoneally administered Bu-DIF-3 (50mg/kg) significantly suppressed the number of trypomastigotes in blood with no apparent adverse effects. These results strongly suggest that DIF-3 derivatives could be new lead compounds in the development of anti-trypanosomiasis drugs.

Nagano, S. and S. Sakurai (2013). "Cell-to-cell coordination for the spontaneous cAMP oscillation in Dictyostelium." Phys Rev E Stat Nonlin Soft Matter Phys 88(6): 062710.
	We propose a new cellular dynamics scheme for the spontaneous cAMP oscillations in Dictyostelium discoideum. Our scheme seamlessly integrates both receptor dynamics and G-protein dynamics into our previously developed cellular dynamics scheme. Extensive computer simulation studies based on our new cellular dynamics scheme were conducted in mutant cells to evaluate the molecular network. The validity of our proposed molecular network as well as the controversial PKA-dependent negative feedback mechanism was supported by our simulation studies. Spontaneous cAMP oscillations were not observed in a single mutant cell. However, multicellular states of various mutant cells consistently initiated spontaneous cAMP oscillations. Therefore, cell-to-cell coordination via the cAMP receptor is essential for the robust initiation of spontaneous cAMP oscillations.

Mutahir, Z., et al. (2013). "Thymidine kinase 1 regulatory fine-tuning through tetramer formation." Febs j 280(6): 1531-1541.
	Thymidine kinase 1 (TK1) provides a crucial precursor, deoxythymidine monophosphate, for nucleic acid synthesis, and the activity of TK1 increases by up to 200-fold during the S-phase of cell division in humans. An important part of the regulatory checkpoints is the ATP and enzyme concentration-dependent transition of TK1 from a dimer with low catalytic efficiency to a tetramer with high catalytic efficiency. This regulatory fine-tuning serves as an additional control to provide a balanced pool of nucleic acid precursors in the cell. We subcloned and over-expressed 10 different TK1s, originating from widely different organisms, and characterized their kinetic and oligomerization properties. Whilst bacteria, plants and Dictyostelium only exhibited dimeric TK1, we found that all animals had a tetrameric TK1. However, a clear ATP-dependent switch between dimer and tetramer was found only in higher vertebrates and was especially pronounced in mammalian and bird TK1s. We suggest that the dimer form is the original form and that the tetramer originated in the animal lineage after the split of Dictyostelium and the lineages leading to invertebrates and vertebrates. The efficient switching mechanism was probably first established in warm-blooded animals when they separated from the rest of the vertebrates.

Muretta, J. M., et al. (2013). "Direct real-time detection of the actin-activated power stroke within the myosin catalytic domain." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 110(18): 7211-7216.
	We have used transient kinetics, nanosecond time-resolved fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET), and kinetics simulations to resolve a structural transition in the Dictyostelium myosin II relay helix during the actin-activated power stroke. The relay helix plays a critical role in force generation in myosin, coupling biochemical changes in the ATPase site with the force-transducing rotation of the myosin light-chain domain. Previous research in the absence of actin showed that ATP binding to myosin induces a dynamic equilibrium between a bent prepower stroke state of the relay helix and a straight postpower stroke state, which dominates in the absence of ATP or when ADP is bound. We now ask whether actin binding reverses this transition and if so, how this reversal is coordinated with actin-activated phosphate release. We labeled a Cys-lite Dictyostelium myosin II motor domain with donor and acceptor probes at two engineered Cys residues designed to detect relay helix bending. We then performed transient time-resolved FRET following stopped-flow mixing of actin with labeled myosin, preincubated with ATP. We determined the kinetics of actin-activated phosphate release, using fluorescent phosphate-binding protein. The results show that actin binding to the myosin.ADP.P complex straightens the relay helix before phosphate dissociation. This actin-activated relay helix straightening is reversible, but phosphate irreversibly dissociates from the postpower stroke state, preventing reversal of the power stroke. Thus, relay helix straightening gates phosphate dissociation, whereas phosphate dissociation provides the thermodynamic driving force underlying force production.

Muller-Taubenberger, A., et al. (2013). "Simple system--substantial share: the use of Dictyostelium in cell biology and molecular medicine." Eur J Cell Biol 92(2): 45-53.
	Dictyostelium discoideum offers unique advantages for studying fundamental cellular processes, host-pathogen interactions as well as the molecular causes of human diseases. The organism can be easily grown in large amounts and is amenable to diverse biochemical, cell biological and genetic approaches. Throughout their life cycle Dictyostelium cells are motile, and thus are perfectly suited to study random and directed cell motility with the underlying changes in signal transduction and the actin cytoskeleton. Dictyostelium is also increasingly used for the investigation of human disease genes and the crosstalk between host and pathogen. As a professional phagocyte it can be infected with several human bacterial pathogens and used to study the infection process. The availability of a large number of knock-out mutants renders Dictyostelium particularly useful for the elucidation and investigation of host cell factors. A powerful armory of molecular genetic techniques that have been continuously expanded over the years and a well curated genome sequence, which is accessible via the online database dictyBase, considerably strengthened Dictyostelium's experimental attractiveness and its value as model organism.

Muller-Taubenberger, A. and H. C. Ishikawa-Ankerhold (2013). "Fluorescent reporters and methods to analyze fluorescent signals." Methods Mol Biol 983: 93-112.
	The use of fluorescent reporters and the development of new imaging technologies have revolutionized studies in cell biology. During recent years the number of fluorescent proteins offering the ability to visualize the distribution of proteins, organelles, and cells has increased tremendously. In parallel, the imaging tools available were refined rapidly enabling now the use of a huge spectrum of specialized methods to explore the cellular and subcellular localization and dynamics of fluorescently tagged markers. This chapter presents an overview of fluorescent reporters and methods available, and describes a selection of those that are routinely applicable in imaging studies using Dictyostelium discoideum.

Muller, S., et al. (2013). "Target recognition, RNA methylation activity and transcriptional regulation of the Dictyostelium discoideum Dnmt2-homologue (DnmA)." Nucleic Acids Res 41(18): 8615-8627.
	Although the DNA methyltransferase 2 family is highly conserved during evolution and recent reports suggested a dual specificity with stronger activity on transfer RNA (tRNA) than DNA substrates, the biological function is still obscure. We show that the Dictyostelium discoideum Dnmt2-homologue DnmA is an active tRNA methyltransferase that modifies C38 in tRNA(Asp(GUC)) in vitro and in vivo. By an ultraviolet-crosslinking and immunoprecipitation approach, we identified further DnmA targets. This revealed specific tRNA fragments bound by the enzyme and identified tRNA(Glu(CUC/UUC)) and tRNA(Gly(GCC)) as new but weaker substrates for both human Dnmt2 and DnmA in vitro but apparently not in vivo. Dnmt2 enzymes form transient covalent complexes with their substrates. The dynamics of complex formation and complex resolution reflect methylation efficiency in vitro. Quantitative PCR analyses revealed alterations in dnmA expression during development, cell cycle and in response to temperature stress. However, dnmA expression only partially correlated with tRNA methylation in vivo. Strikingly, dnmA expression in the laboratory strain AX2 was significantly lower than in the NC4 parent strain. As expression levels and binding of DnmA to a target in vivo are apparently not necessarily accompanied by methylation, we propose an additional biological function of DnmA apart from methylation.

Muller, R., et al. (2013). "The cytohesin paralog Sec7 of Dictyostelium discoideum is required for phagocytosis and cell motility." Cell Commun Signal 11: 54.
	BACKGROUND: Dictyostelium harbors several paralogous Sec7 genes that encode members of three subfamilies of the Sec7 superfamily of guanine nucleotide exchange factors. One of them is the cytohesin family represented by three members in D. discoideum, SecG, Sec7 and a further protein distinguished by several transmembrane domains. Cytohesins are characterized by a Sec7-PH tandem domain and have roles in cell adhesion and migration. RESULTS: We study here Sec7. In vitro its PH domain bound preferentially to phosphatidylinositol 3,4-bisphosphate (PI(3,4)P2), phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate (PI(4,5)P2) and phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate (PI(3,4,5)P3). When following the distribution of GFP-Sec7 in vivo we observed the protein in the cytosol and at the plasma membrane. Strikingly, when cells formed pseudopods, macropinosomes or phagosomes, GFP-Sec7 was conspicuously absent from areas of the plasma membrane which were involved in these processes. Mutant cells lacking Sec7 exhibited an impaired phagocytosis and showed significantly reduced speed and less persistence during migration. Cellular properties associated with mammalian cytohesins like cell-cell and cell-substratum adhesion were not altered. Proteins with roles in membrane trafficking and signal transduction have been identified as putative interaction partners consistent with the data obtained from mutant analysis. CONCLUSIONS: Sec7 is a cytosolic component and is associated with the plasma membrane in a pattern distinctly different from the accumulation of PI(3,4,5)P3. Mutant analysis reveals that loss of the protein affects cellular processes that involve membrane flow and the actin cytoskeleton.

Morgani, S. M. and J. M. Brickman (2013). "Survival of the fattest." Elife 2: e01760.
	Experiments on the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum show that the origins of lineage bias in this system lie in the nutritional history of individual cells. Clues to the molecular basis for this process suggest similar forces may be at work in early mammalian development.

Moon, E. K., et al. (2013). "Identification of atg8 isoform in encysting acanthamoeba." Korean J Parasitol 51(5): 497-502.
	Autophagy-related protein 8 (Atg8) is an essential component of autophagy formation and encystment of cyst-forming parasites, and some protozoa, such as, Acanthamoeba, Entamoeba, and Dictyostelium, have been reported to possess a type of Atg8. In this study, an isoform of Atg8 was identified and characterized in Acanthamoeba castellanii (AcAtg8b). AcAtg8b protein was found to encode 132 amino acids and to be longer than AcAtg8 protein, which encoded 117 amino acids. Real-time PCR analysis showed high expression levels of AcAtg8b and AcAtg8 during encystation. Fluorescence microscopy demonstrated that AcAtg8b is involved in the formation of the autophagosomal membrane. Chemically synthesized siRNA against AcAtg8b reduced the encystation efficiency of Acanthamoeba, confirming that AcAtg8b, like AcAtg8, is an essential component of cyst formation in Acanthamoeba. Our findings suggest that Acanthamoeba has doubled the number of Atg8 gene copies to ensure the successful encystation for survival when 1 copy is lost. These 2 types of Atg8 identified in Acanthamoeba provide important information regarding autophagy formation, encystation mechanism, and survival of primitive, cyst-forming protozoan parasites.

Mohri, K., et al. (2013). "Temporal and non-permanent division of labor during sorocarp formation in the social amoeba Acytostelium subglobosum." Dev Biol 375(2): 202-209.
	Somatic cell differentiation is crucial for the development of multicellular organisms. While the development of a fruiting body in Dictyostelium discoideum represents a simple model of this process with separation of stalk cells from the spore lineage, that of Acytostelium subglobosum is not accompanied by cell type separation. This species produces acellular stalks and, seemingly, all aggregated amoebae become spores; however, it possesses homologs for the stalk-cell marker genes of D. discoideum. In this study, we analyzed the spatio-temporal expression of A. subglobosum orthologs for D. discoideum stalk- or spore-lineage markers to clarify the developmental process of A. subglobosum. We first found that the prespore vesicles, which contained spore coat proteins, started to accumulate in the tip region and were observed in the entire sorogen throughout later development, confirming that all A. subglobosum cells became spores. The expression of a stalk-lineage gene ortholog, As-ecmA, started at the mound stage and was prominent in the protruding sorogen. Although two spore-lineage gene orthologs, As-cotD1 and -cotD2, were likewise detected shortly after cell aggregation and increased in intensity until tip formation, their expression diminished in the protruding sorogen. Double-fluorescence staining of these prestalk and prespore marker genes revealed that the expression of these marker genes was mutually exclusive and that expression switching occurred in the early tip. Our results indicate that A. subglobosum cells become committed to the spore lineage first, and then, while keeping this commitment intact, participate in stalk formation. Instead of the permanent division of labor observed in D. discoideum, A. subglobosum produces fruiting bodies by all cells contributing to the formation of the stalk as well as forming spores.

Moen, R. J., et al. (2013). "Conformationally trapping the actin-binding cleft of myosin with a bifunctional spin label." J Biol Chem 288(5): 3016-3024.
	We have trapped the catalytic domain of Dictyostelium (Dicty) myosin II in a weak actin-binding conformation by chemically crosslinking two engineered cysteines across the actin-binding cleft, using a bifunctional spin label (BSL). By connecting the lower and upper 50 kDa domains of myosin, the crosslink restricts the conformation of the actin-binding cleft. Crosslinking has no effect on the basal ATPase activity of isolated myosin, but it impairs rigor actin binding and actin-activation of myosin ATPase. EPR spectra of BSL provide insight into actomyosin structural dynamics. BSL is highly immobilized within the actin-binding cleft and is thus exquisitely sensitive to the global orientation and rotational motions of the myosin head. Conventional EPR shows that myosin heads bound to oriented actin filaments are highly disordered with respect to the actin filament axis, in contrast to the nearly crystalline order of myosin heads in rigor. This disorder is similar to that of weakly bound heads induced by ATP, but saturation transfer EPR shows that the disorder of crosslinked myosin is at least 100 times slower. Thus this cleft-crosslinked myosin is remarkably similar, in both actin affinity and rotational dynamics, to SH1-SH2 crosslinked BSL-myosin S1. We conclude that, whether myosin is trapped at the actin-myosin interface or in the force-generating region between the active site and lever arm, the structural state of myosin is intermediate between the weak-binding state preceding phosphate release and the strong-binding state that succeeds it. We propose that it represents the threshold of force generation.

Miyata, S. T., et al. (2013). "Dual expression profile of type VI secretion system immunity genes protects pandemic Vibrio cholerae." PLoS Pathog 9(12): e1003752.
	The Vibrio cholerae type VI secretion system (T6SS) assembles as a molecular syringe that injects toxic protein effectors into both eukaryotic and prokaryotic cells. We previously reported that the V. cholerae O37 serogroup strain V52 maintains a constitutively active T6SS to kill other Gram-negative bacteria while being immune to attack by kin bacteria. The pandemic O1 El Tor V. cholerae strain C6706 is T6SS-silent under laboratory conditions as it does not produce T6SS structural components and effectors, and fails to kill Escherichia coli prey. Yet, C6706 exhibits full resistance when approached by T6SS-active V52. These findings suggested that an active T6SS is not required for immunity against T6SS-mediated virulence. Here, we describe a dual expression profile of the T6SS immunity protein-encoding genes tsiV1, tsiV2, and tsiV3 that provides pandemic V. cholerae strains with T6SS immunity and allows T6SS-silent strains to maintain immunity against attacks by T6SS-active bacterial neighbors. The dual expression profile allows transcription of the three genes encoding immunity proteins independently of other T6SS proteins encoded within the same operon. One of these immunity proteins, TsiV2, protects against the T6SS effector VasX which is encoded immediately upstream of tsiV2. VasX is a secreted, lipid-binding protein that we previously characterized with respect to T6SS-mediated virulence towards the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum. Our data suggest the presence of an internal promoter in the open reading frame of vasX that drives expression of the downstream gene tsiV2. Furthermore, VasX is shown to act in conjunction with VasW, an accessory protein to VasX, to compromise the inner membrane of prokaryotic target cells. The dual regulatory profile of the T6SS immunity protein-encoding genes tsiV1, tsiV2, and tsiV3 permits V. cholerae to tightly control T6SS gene expression while maintaining immunity to T6SS activity.

Miranda, E. R., et al. (2013). "ABC transporters in Dictyostelium discoideum development." PLoS One 8(8): e70040.
	ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters can translocate a broad spectrum of molecules across the cell membrane including physiological cargo and toxins. ABC transporters are known for the role they play in resistance towards anticancer agents in chemotherapy of cancer patients. There are 68 ABC transporters annotated in the genome of the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum. We have characterized more than half of these ABC transporters through a systematic study of mutations in their genes. We have analyzed morphological and transcriptional phenotypes for these mutants during growth and development and found that most of the mutants exhibited rather subtle phenotypes. A few of the genes may share physiological functions, as reflected in their transcriptional phenotypes. Since most of the abc-transporter mutants showed subtle morphological phenotypes, we utilized these transcriptional phenotypes to identify genes that are important for development by looking for transcripts whose abundance was unperturbed in most of the mutants. We found a set of 668 genes that includes many validated D. discoideum developmental genes. We have also found that abcG6 and abcG18 may have potential roles in intercellular signaling during terminal differentiation of spores and stalks.

Miranda, E. R., et al. (2013). "Transcriptional profiling of Dictyostelium with RNA sequencing." Methods Mol Biol 983: 139-171.
	Transcriptional profiling methods have been utilized in the analysis of various biological processes in Dictyostelium. Recent advances in high-throughput sequencing have increased the resolution and the dynamic range of transcriptional profiling. Here we describe the utility of RNA sequencing with the Illumina technology for production of transcriptional profiles. We also describe methods for data mapping and storage as well as common and specialized tools for data analysis, both online and offline.

Mesquita, A., et al. (2013). "Monitoring autophagy in Dictyostelium." Methods Mol Biol 983: 461-470.
	Autophagy is an intracellular degradation mechanism essential for cell survival and maintenance of cellular homeostasis, differentiation, and development. Recent research has highlighted the impact of autophagy in neurodegenerative diseases and aging. We are still far from fully understanding the molecular mechanism of autophagy and its regulation, essential for its future use as a therapeutic target. In the last years many different techniques have been developed to study this process and some of them have been successfully used in Dictyostelium. We describe here the use of confocal microscopy to detect the pattern of different autophagic markers and the differences expected in strains deficient in autophagy. Autophagy dysfunction might also lead to the formation of intracellular ubiquitinated protein aggregates that can be easily detected by immunofluorescence. In addition, we describe two different techniques that allow the assessment of the so-called autophagic flux, the progression of autophagosomes until their fusion with lysosomes. The first one is a proteolytic cleavage assay of cytosolic markers such as GFP-PgkA and the second the visualization of the RFP-GFP-Atg8 marker by confocal microscopy.

McQuade, K. J., et al. (2013). "The green tea catechin epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG) blocks cell motility, chemotaxis and development in Dictyostelium discoideum." PLoS One 8(3): e59275.
	Catechins, flavanols found at high levels in green tea, have received significant attention due to their potential health benefits related to cancer, autoimmunity and metabolic disease, but little is known about the mechanisms by which these compounds affect cellular behavior. Here, we assess whether the model organism Dictyostelium discoideum is a useful tool with which to characterize the effects of catechins. Epigallocatechin gallate (EGCG), the most abundant and potent catechin in green tea, has significant effects on the Dictyostelium life cycle. In the presence of EGCG aggregation is delayed, cells do not stream and development is typically stalled at the loose aggregate stage. The developmental effects very likely result from defects in motility, as EGCG reduces both random movement and chemotaxis of Dictyostelium amoebae. These results suggest that catechins and their derivatives may be useful tools with which to better understand cell motility and development in Dictyostelium and that this organism is a useful model to further characterize the activities of catechins.

Masud Rana, A. Y., et al. (2013). "Dynamin contributes to cytokinesis by stabilizing actin filaments in the contractile ring." Genes Cells 18(8): 621-635.
	Dynamin has been proposed to play an important role in cytokinesis, although the nature of its contribution has remained unclear. Dictyostelium discoideum has five dynamin-like proteins: DymA, DymB, DlpA, DlpB and DlpC. Cells mutant for dymA, dlpA or dlpB presented defects in cytokinesis that resulted in multinucleation when the cells were cultured in suspension. However, the cells could divide normally when attached to the substratum; this latter process depends on traction-mediated cytokinesis B. A dynamin GTPase inhibitor also blocked cytokinesis in suspension, suggesting an important role for dynamin in cytokinesis A, which requires a contractile ring powered by myosin II. Myosin II did not properly localize to the cleavage furrow in dynamin mutant cells, and the furrow shape was distorted. DymA and DlpA were associated with actin filaments at the furrow. Fluorescence recovery after photobleaching and a DNase I binding assay showed that actin filaments in the contractile ring were significantly fragmented in mutant cells. Dynamin is therefore involved in the stabilization of actin filaments in the furrow, which, in turn, maintain proper myosin II organization. We conclude that the lack of these dynamins disrupts proper actomyosin organization and thereby disables cytokinesis A.

Masaki, N., et al. (2013). "Robustness of self-organizing chemoattractant field arising from precise pulse induction of its breakdown enzyme: a single-cell level analysis of PDE expression in Dictyostelium." Biophys J 104(5): 1191-1202.
	The oscillation of chemoattractant cyclic AMP (cAMP) in Dictyostelium discoideum is a collective phenomenon that occurs when the basal level of extracellular cAMP exceeds a threshold and invokes cooperative mutual excitation of cAMP synthesis and secretion. For pulses to be relayed from cell to cell repetitively, secreted cAMP must be cleared and brought down to the subthreshold level. One of the main determinants of the oscillatory behavior is thus how much extracellular cAMP is degraded by extracellular phosphodiesterase (PDE). To date, the exact nature of PDE gene regulation remains elusive. Here, we performed live imaging analysis of mRNA transcripts for pdsA--the gene encoding extracellular PDE. Our analysis revealed that pdsA is upregulated during the rising phase of cAMP oscillations. Furthermore, by analyzing isolated cells, we show that expression of pdsA is strictly dependent on the presence of extracellular cAMP. pdsA is induced only at approximately 1 nM extracellular cAMP, which is almost identical to the threshold concentration for the cAMP relay response. The observed precise regulation of PDE expression together with degradation of extracellular cAMP by PDE form a dual positive and negative feedback circuit, and model analysis shows that this sets the cAMP level near the threshold concentration for the cAMP relay response for a wide range of adenylyl cyclase activity. The overlap of the thresholds could allow oscillations of chemoattractant cAMP to self-organize at various starving conditions, making its development robust to fluctuations in its environment.

March, C., et al. (2013). "Role of bacterial surface structures on the interaction of Klebsiella pneumoniae with phagocytes." PLoS One 8(2): e56847.
	Phagocytosis is a key process of the immune system. The human pathogen Klebsiella pneumoniae is a well known example of a pathogen highly resistant to phagocytosis. A wealth of evidence demonstrates that the capsule polysaccharide (CPS) plays a crucial role in resistance to phagocytosis. The amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum shares with mammalian macrophages the ability to phagocytose and kill bacteria. The fact that K. pneumoniae is ubiquitous in nature and, therefore, should avoid predation by amoebae, poses the question whether K. pneumoniae employs similar means to counteract amoebae and mammalian phagocytes. Here we developed an assay to evaluate K. pneumoniae-D. discoideum interaction. The richness of the growth medium affected the threshold at which the cps mutant was permissive for Dictyostelium and only at lower nutrient concentrations the cps mutant was susceptible to predation by amoebae. Given the critical role of bacterial surface elements on host-pathogen interactions, we explored the possible contribution of the lipopolysaccharide (LPS) and outer membrane proteins (OMPs) to combat phagoyctosis by D. discoideum. We uncover that, in addition to the CPS, the LPS O-polysaccharide and the first core sugar participate in Klebsiella resistance to predation by D. discoideum. K. pneumoniae LPS lipid A decorations are also necessary to avoid predation by amoebae although PagP-dependent palmitoylation plays a more important role than the lipid A modification with aminoarabinose. Mutants lacking OMPs OmpA or OmpK36 were also permissive for D. discoideium growth. Except the LPS O-polysaccharide mutants, all mutants were more susceptible to phagocytosis by mouse alveolar macrophages. Finally, we found a correlation between virulence, using the pneumonia mouse model, and resistance to phagocytosis. Altogether, this work reveals novel K. pneumoniae determinants involved in resistance to phagocytosis and supports the notion that Dictyostelium amoebae might be useful as host model to measure K. pneumoniae virulence and not only phagocytosis.

Manna, S., et al. (2013). "A unique mitochondrial transcription factor B protein in Dictyostelium discoideum." PLoS One 8(7): e70614.
	Unlike their bacteriophage homologs, mitochondrial RNA polymerases require the assistance of transcription factors in order to transcribe mitochondrial DNA efficiently. The transcription factor A family has been shown to be important for transcription of the human mitochondrial DNA, with some of its regulatory activity located in its extended C-terminal tail. The mitochondrial transcription factor B family often has functions not only in transcription, but also in mitochondrial rRNA modification, a hallmark of its alpha-proteobacterial origin. We have identified and characterised a mitochondrial transcription factor B homolog in the soil dwelling cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum, an organism widely established as a model for studying eukaryotic cell biology. Using in bacterio functional assays, we demonstrate that the mitochondrial transcription factor B homolog not only functions as a mitochondrial transcription factor, but that it also has a role in rRNA methylation. Additionally, we show that the transcriptional activation properties of the D. discoideum protein are located in its extended C-terminal tail, a feature not seen before in the mitochondrial transcription factor B family, but reminiscent of the human mitochondrial transcription factor A. This report contributes to our current understanding of the complexities of mitochondrial transcription, and its evolution in eukaryotes.

Manna, S., et al. (2013). "Identification of Pentatricopeptide Repeat Proteins in the Model Organism Dictyostelium discoideum." Int J Genomics 2013: 586498.
	Pentatricopeptide repeat (PPR) proteins are RNA binding proteins with functions in organelle RNA metabolism. They are found in all eukaryotes but have been most extensively studied in plants. We report on the identification of 12 PPR-encoding genes in the genome of the protist Dictyostelium discoideum, with potential homologs in other members of the same lineage and some predicted novel functions for the encoded gene products in protists. For one of the gene products, we show that it localizes to the mitochondria, and we also demonstrate that antisense inhibition of its expression leads to slower growth, a phenotype associated with mitochondrial dysfunction.

Maeda, Y. and J. Chida (2013). "Control of cell differentiation by mitochondria, typically evidenced in dictyostelium development." Biomolecules 3(4): 943-966.
	In eukaryotic cells, mitochondria are self-reproducing organelles with their own DNA and they play a central role in adenosine triphosphate (ATP) synthesis by respiration. Increasing evidence indicates that mitochondria also have critical and multiple functions in the initiation of cell differentiation, cell-type determination, cell movement, and pattern formation. This has been most strikingly realized in development of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium. For example, the expression of the mitochondrial ribosomal protein S4 (mt-rps4) gene is required for the initial differentiation. The Dictyostelium homologue (Dd-TRAP1) of TRAP-1 (tumor necrosis receptor-associated protein 1), a mitochondrial molecular chaperone belonging to the Hsp90 family, allows the prompt transition of cells from growth to differentiation through a novel prestarvation factor (PSF-3) in growth medium. Moreover, a cell-type-specific organelle named a prespore-specific vacuole (PSV) is constructed by mitochondrial transformation with the help of the Golgi complex. Mitochondria are also closely involved in a variety of cellular activities including CN-resistant respiration and apoptosis. These mitochondrial functions are reviewed in this article, with special emphasis on the regulation of Dictyostelium development.

Loomis, W. F. (2013). "Comparative genomics of the dictyostelids." Methods Mol Biol 983: 39-58.
	The complete genomes of Dictyostelium discoideum, Dictyostelium purpureum, Polysphondylium pallidum and Dictyostelium fasciculatum have been sequenced. The proteins predicted to be encoded by the genes in each species have been compared to each other as well as to the complete compilation of nonredundant proteins from bacteria, plants, fungi, and animals. Likely functions have been assigned to about half of the proteins on the basis of sequence similarity to proteins with experimentally defined functions or properties. Even when the sequence similarity is not sufficiently high to have much confidence in the predicted function of the dictyostelid proteins, the shared ancestry of the proteins can often be clearly recognized. The degree of divergence within such clusters of orthologous proteins can then be used to establish the evolutionary pathways leading to each species and estimate the approximate time of divergence. This approach has established that the dictyostelids are a monophyletic group with four major groups that diverged from the line leading to animals shortly before the fungi. D. fasciculatum and P. pallidum are representatives of group 1 and group 2 dictyostelids, respectively. Their common ancestor diverged about 600-800 million years ago from the line leading to D. discoideum and D. purpureum which are group 4 dictyostelids. Each of these species encodes about 11,000-12,000 proteins which is almost twice that in the yeasts. Most of the genes known to be involved in specific signal transduction pathways that mediate intercellular communication are present in each of the sequenced species but both P. pallidum and D. fasciculatum appear to be missing the gene responsible for synthesis of GABA, gadA, suggesting that release of the SDF-2 precursor AcbA is not regulated by GABA in these species as it is in D. discoideum. Likewise, the gene responsible for making cytokinins, iptA, appears to have entered by horizontal gene transfer from bacteria into the genome of the common ancestor of group 4 dictyostelids after they diverged from the group 1 and 2 species. Therefore, it is unlikely that P. pallidum or D. fasciculatum has the ability to make or respond to the cytokinin discadenine which induces rapid encapsulation of spores and maintains their dormancy in D. discoideum. Other predictions from comparative genomics among the dictyostelids are reviewed and evaluated.

Lima, W. C. and P. Cosson (2013). "Secretory lysosomes in Dictyostelium: visualization, characterization, and dynamics." Methods Mol Biol 983: 445-459.
	Dictyostelium discoideum is a unicellular eukaryotic model largely used for the study of the endocytic pathway, mainly due to its high resemblance to the mammalian pathway. Over the last years, Dictyostelium has been increasingly employed for investigating the biogenesis and secretion of secretory lysosomes, given its advantage over mammalian cells. Here we describe protocols for determination of ionic concentration and rates of maturation and exocytosis of these compartments.

Liao, X. H., et al. (2013). "Chemoattractant stimulation of TORC2 is regulated by receptor/G protein-targeted inhibitory mechanisms that function upstream and independently of an essential GEF/Ras activation pathway in Dictyostelium." Mol Biol Cell 24(13): 2146-2155.
	Global stimulation of Dictyostelium with different chemoattractants elicits multiple transient signaling responses, including synthesis of cAMP and cGMP, actin polymerization, activation of kinases ERK2, TORC2, and phosphatidylinositide 3-kinase, and Ras-GTP accumulation. Mechanisms that down-regulate these responses are poorly understood. Here we examine transient activation of TORC2 in response to chemically distinct chemoattractants, cAMP and folate, and suggest that TORC2 is regulated by adaptive, desensitizing responses to stimulatory ligands that are independent of downstream, feedback, or feedforward circuits. Cells with acquired insensitivity to either folate or cAMP remain fully responsive to TORC2 activation if stimulated with the other ligand. Thus TORC2 responses to cAMP or folate are not cross-inhibitory. Using a series of signaling mutants, we show that folate and cAMP activate TORC2 through an identical GEF/Ras pathway but separate receptors and G protein couplings. Because the common GEF/Ras pathway also remains fully responsive to one chemoattractant after desensitization to the other, GEF/Ras must act downstream and independent of adaptation to persistent ligand stimulation. When initial chemoattractant concentrations are immediately diluted, cells rapidly regain full responsiveness. We suggest that ligand adaptation functions in upstream inhibitory pathways that involve chemoattractant-specific receptor/G protein complexes and regulate multiple response pathways.

Le Coadic, M., et al. (2013). "Phg1/TM9 proteins control intracellular killing of bacteria by determining cellular levels of the Kil1 sulfotransferase in Dictyostelium." PLoS One 8(1): e53259.
	Dictyostelium discoideum has largely been used to study phagocytosis and intracellular killing of bacteria. Previous studies have shown that Phg1A, Kil1 and Kil2 proteins are necessary for efficient intracellular killing of Klebsiella bacteria. Here we show that in phg1a KO cells, cellular levels of lysosomal glycosidases and lysozyme are decreased, and lysosomal pH is increased. Surprisingly, overexpression of Kil1 restores efficient killing in phg1a KO cells without correcting these lysosomal anomalies. Conversely, kil1 KO cells are defective for killing, but their enzymatic content and lysosomal pH are indistinguishable from WT cells. The killing defect of phg1a KO cells can be accounted for by the observation that in these cells the stability and the cellular amount of Kil1 are markedly reduced. Since Kil1 is the only sulfotransferase characterized in Dictyostelium, an (unidentified) sulfated factor, defective in both phg1a and kil1 KO cells, may play a key role in intracellular killing of Klebsiella bacteria. In addition, Phg1B plays a redundant role with Phg1A in controlling cellular amounts of Kil1 and intracellular killing. Finally, cellular levels of Kil1 are unaffected in kil2 KO cells, and Kil1 overexpression does not correct the killing defect of kil2 KO cells, suggesting that Kil2 plays a distinct role in intracellular killing.

Kypri, E., et al. (2013). "Antagonistic control of lysosomal fusion by Rab14 and the Lyst-related protein LvsB." Traffic 14(5): 599-609.
	While loss of the protein Lyst causes abnormal lysosomes in patients with Chediak-Higashi syndrome, the contribution of Lyst to lysosome biology is not known. Previously we found that the Dictyostelium ortholog of Lyst, LvsB, is a cytosolic protein that associates with lysosomes and post-lysosomes to prevent their inappropriate fusion. Here we provide three lines of evidence that indicate that LvsB contributes to lysosome function by antagonizing the function of DdRab14, a protein that promotes homotypic fusion among lysosomes. (1) Instead of restricting DdRab14 to lysosomes, cells that lack LvsB expand DdRab14 localization to include post-lysosomes. (2) Expression of activated DdRab14 phenocopies the loss of LvsB, causing inappropriate heterotypic fusion between lysosomes and post-lysosomes and their subsequent enlargement. (3) Conversely, expression of inactivated DdRab14 suppresses the phenotype of LvsB null cells and restores their lysosomal size and segregation from post-lysosomes. Our data suggest a scenario where LvsB binds to late lysosomes and promotes the inactivation of DdRab14. This inactivation allows the lysosomes to mature into post-lysosomes for eventual secretion. We propose that human Lyst may function similarly to regulate Rab-dependent fusion of lysosomal compartments.

Kuwayama, H., et al. (2013). "A RabGAP regulates life-cycle duration via trimeric G-protein cascades in Dictyostelium discoideum." PLoS One 8(12): e81811.
	BACKGROUND: The life-cycle of cellular slime molds comprises chronobiologically regulated processes. During the growth phase, the amoeboid cells proliferate at a definite rate. Upon starvation, they synthesize cAMP as both first and second messengers in signalling pathways and form aggregates, migrating slugs, and fruiting bodies, consisting of spores and stalk cells, within 24 h. In Dictyostelium discoideum, because most growth-specific events cease during development, proliferative and heterochronic mutations are not considered to be interrelated and no genetic factor governing the entire life-cycle duration has ever been identified. METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Using yeast 2-hybrid library screening, we isolated a Dictyostelium discoideum RabGAP, Dd Rbg-3, as a candidate molecule by which the Dictyostelium Galpha2 subunit directs its effects. Rab GTPase-activating protein, RabGAP, acts as a negative regulator of Rab small GTPases, which orchestrate the intracellular membrane trafficking involved in cell proliferation. Deletion mutants of Dd rbg-3 exhibited an increased growth rate and a shortened developmental period, while an overexpression mutant demonstrated the opposite effects. We also show that Dd Rbg-3 interacts with 2 Galpha subunits in an activity-dependent manner in vitro. Furthermore, both human and Caenorhabditis elegans rbg-3 homologs complemented the Dd rbg-3-deletion phenotype in D. discoideum, indicating that similar pathways may be generally conserved in multicellular organisms. CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: Our findings suggest that Dd Rbg-3 acts as a key element regulating the duration of D. discoideum life-span potentially via trimeric G-protein cascades.

Kuwayama, H. and S. Ishida (2013). "Biological soliton in multicellular movement." Sci Rep 3: 2272.
	Solitons have been observed in various physical phenomena. Here, we show that the distinct characteristics of solitons are present in the mass cell movement of non-chemotactic mutants of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum. During starvation, D. discoideum forms multicellular structures that differentiate into spore or stalk cells and, eventually, a fruiting body. Non-chemotactic mutant cells do not form multicellular structures; however, they do undergo mass cell movement in the form of a pulsatile soliton-like structure (SLS). We also found that SLS induction is mediated by adhesive cell-cell interactions. These observations provide novel insights into the mechanisms of biological solitons in multicellular movement.

Kubohara, Y., et al. (2013). "Mitochondria are the target organelle of differentiation-inducing factor-3, an anti-tumor agent isolated from Dictyostelium discoideum [corrected]." PLoS One 8(8): e72118.
	Differentiation-inducing factor-3 (DIF-3), found in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum, and its derivatives such as butoxy-DIF-3 (Bu-DIF-3) are potent anti-tumor agents. However, the precise mechanisms underlying the actions of DIF-3 remain to be elucidated. In this study, we synthesized a green fluorescent derivative of DIF-3, BODIPY-DIF-3, and a control fluorescent compound, Bu-BODIPY (butyl-BODIPY), and investigated how DIF-like molecules behave in human cervical cancer HeLa cells by using both fluorescence and electron microscopy. BODIPY-DIF-3 at 5-20 micro M suppressed cell growth in a dose-dependent manner, whereas Bu-BODIPY had minimal effect on cell growth. When cells were incubated with BODIPY-DIF-3 at 20 microM, it penetrated cell membranes within 0.5 h and localized mainly in mitochondria, while Bu-BODIPY did not stain the cells. Exposure of cells for 1-3 days to DIF-3, Bu-DIF-3, BODIPY-DIF-3, or CCCP (a mitochondrial uncoupler) induced substantial mitochondrial swelling, suppressing cell growth. When added to isolated mitochondria, DIF-3, Bu-DIF-3, and BOIDPY-DIF-3, like CCCP, dose-dependently promoted the rate of oxygen consumption, but Bu-BODIPY did not. Our results suggest that these bioactive DIF-like molecules suppress cell growth, at least in part, by disturbing mitochondrial activity. This is the first report showing the cellular localization and behavior of DIF-like molecules in mammalian tumor cells.

Kubo, I., et al. (2013). "Construction of bacteria-eukaryote synthetic mutualism." Biosystems 113(2): 66-71.
	Mutualism is ubiquitous in nature but is known to be intrinsically vulnerable with regard to both population dynamics and evolution. Synthetic ecology has indicated that it is feasible for organisms to establish novel mutualism merely through encountering each other by showing that it is feasible to construct synthetic mutualism between organisms. However, bacteria-eukaryote mutualism, which is ecologically important, has not yet been constructed. In this study, we synthetically constructed mutualism between a bacterium and a eukaryote by using two model organisms. We mixed a bacterium, Escherichia coli (a genetically engineered glutamine auxotroph), and an amoeba, Dictyostelium discoideum, in 14 sets of conditions in which each species could not grow in monoculture but potentially could grow in coculture. Under a single condition in which the bacterium and amoeba mutually compensated for the lack of required nutrients (lipoic acid and glutamine, respectively), both species grew continuously through several subcultures, essentially establishing mutualism. Our results shed light on the establishment of bacteria-eukaryote mutualism and indicate that a bacterium and eukaryote pair in nature also has a non-negligible possibility of establishing novel mutualism if the organisms are potentially mutualistic.

Kosem, S., et al. (2013). "A non-mitotic CENP-E homolog in Dictyostelium discoideum with slow motor activity." Biochem Biophys Res Commun 431(3): 490-495.
	Kinesins are ATP-dependent molecular motors that mediate unidirectional intracellular transport along microtubules. Dictyostelium discoideum has 13 different kinesin isoforms including two members of the kinesin-7 family, Kif4 and Kif11. While Kif4 is structurally and functionally related to centromere-associated CENP-E proteins involved in the transport of chromosomes to the poles during mitosis, the function of the unusually short CENP-E variant Kif11 is unclear. Here we show that orthologs of short CENP-E variants are present in plants and fungi, and analyze functional properties of the Dictyostelium CENP-E version, Kif11. Gene knockout mutants reveal that Kif11 is not required for mitosis or development. Imaging of GFP-labeled Kif11 expressing Dictyostelium cells indicates that Kif11 is a plus-end directed motor that accumulates at microtubule plus ends. By multiple motor gliding assays, we show that Kif11 moves with an average velocity of 38nm/s, thus defining Kif11 as a very slow motor. The activity of the Kif11 motor appears to be modulated via interactions with the non-catalytic tail region. Our work highlights a subclass of kinesin-7-like motors that function outside of a role in mitosis.

Kortholt, A., et al. (2013). "Ras activation and symmetry breaking during Dictyostelium chemotaxis." J Cell Sci 126(Pt 19): 4502-4513.
	Central to chemotaxis is the molecular mechanism by which a shallow spatial gradient of chemoattractant induces symmetry breaking of activated signaling molecules. Previously, we have used Dictyostelium mutants to investigate the minimal requirements for chemotaxis, and identified a basal signaling module providing activation of Ras and F-actin at the leading edge. Here, we show that Ras activation after application of a pipette releasing the chemoattractant cAMP has three phases, each depending on specific guanine-nucleotide-exchange factors (GEFs). Initially a transient activation of Ras occurs at the entire cell boundary, which is proportional to the local cAMP concentrations and therefore slightly stronger at the front than in the rear of the cell. This transient Ras activation is present in galpha2 (gpbB)-null cells but not in gbeta (gpbA)-null cells, suggesting that Gbetagamma mediates the initial activation of Ras. The second phase is symmetry breaking: Ras is activated only at the side of the cell closest to the pipette. Symmetry breaking absolutely requires Galpha2 and Gbetagamma, but not the cytoskeleton or four cAMP-induced signaling pathways, those dependent on phosphatidylinositol (3,4,5)-triphosphate [PtdIns(3,4,5)P3], cGMP, TorC2 and PLA2. As cells move in the gradient, the crescent of activated Ras in the front half of the cell becomes confined to a small area at the utmost front of the cell. Confinement of Ras activation leads to cell polarization, and depends on cGMP formation, myosin and F-actin. The experiments show that activation, symmetry breaking and confinement of Ras during Dictyostelium chemotaxis uses different G-protein subunits and a multitude of Ras GEFs and GTPase-activating proteins (GAPs).

King, J. S., et al. (2013). "WASH is required for lysosomal recycling and efficient autophagic and phagocytic digestion." Mol Biol Cell 24(17): 2714-2726.
	Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein and SCAR homologue (WASH) is an important regulator of vesicle trafficking. By generating actin on the surface of intracellular vesicles, WASH is able to directly regulate endosomal sorting and maturation. We report that, in Dictyostelium, WASH is also required for the lysosomal digestion of both phagocytic and autophagic cargo. Consequently, Dictyostelium cells lacking WASH are unable to grow on many bacteria or to digest their own cytoplasm to survive starvation. WASH is required for efficient phagosomal proteolysis, and proteomic analysis demonstrates that this is due to reduced delivery of lysosomal hydrolases. Both protease and lipase delivery are disrupted, and lipid catabolism is also perturbed. Starvation-induced autophagy therefore leads to phospholipid accumulation within WASH-null lysosomes. This causes the formation of multilamellar bodies typical of many lysosomal storage diseases. Mechanistically, we show that, in cells lacking WASH, cathepsin D becomes trapped in a late endosomal compartment, unable to be recycled to nascent phagosomes and autophagosomes. WASH is therefore required for the maturation of lysosomes to a stage at which hydrolases can be retrieved and reused.

Kikuchi, H., et al. (2013). "Novel chlorinated dibenzofurans isolated from the cellular slime mold, Polysphondylium filamentosum, and their biological activities." Bioorg Med Chem 21(15): 4628-4633.
	Cellular slime molds are expected to have the huge potential for producing secondary metabolites including polyketides, and we have studied the diversity of secondary metabolites of cellular slime molds for their potential utilization as new biological resources for natural product chemistry. From the methanol extract of fruiting bodies of Polysphondylium filamentosum, we obtained new chlorinated benzofurans Pf-1 (4) and Pf-2 (5) which display multiple biological activities; these include stalk cell differentiation-inducing activity in the well-studied cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum, and inhibitory activities on cell proliferation in mammalian cells and gene expression in Drosophila melanogaster.

Khamviwath, V., et al. (2013). "A continuum model of actin waves in Dictyostelium discoideum." PLoS One 8(5): e64272.
	Actin waves are complex dynamical patterns of the dendritic network of filamentous actin in eukaryotes. We developed a model of actin waves in PTEN-deficient Dictyostelium discoideum by deriving an approximation of the dynamics of discrete actin filaments and combining it with a signaling pathway that controls filament branching. This signaling pathway, together with the actin network, contains a positive feedback loop that drives the actin waves. Our model predicts the structure, composition, and dynamics of waves that are consistent with existing experimental evidence, as well as the biochemical dependence on various protein partners. Simulation suggests that actin waves are initiated when local actin network activity, caused by an independent process, exceeds a certain threshold. Moreover, diffusion of proteins that form a positive feedback loop with the actin network alone is sufficient for propagation of actin waves at the observed speed of * 6 mm/min. Decay of the wave back can be caused by scarcity of network components, and the shape of actin waves is highly dependent on the filament disassembly rate. The model allows retraction of actin waves and captures formation of new wave fronts in broken waves. Our results demonstrate that a delicate balance between a positive feedback, filament disassembly, and local availability of network components is essential for the complex dynamics of actin waves.

Kelsey, J. S. and D. D. Blumberg (2013). "A SAP domain-containing protein shuttles between the nucleus and cell membranes and plays a role in adhesion and migration in D. discoideum." Biol Open 2(4): 396-406.
	The AmpA protein reduces cell adhesion, thereby influencing cell migration in Dictyostelium. To understand how ampA influences cell migration, second site suppressors of an AmpA overexpressing cell line were created by REMI mutagenesis. Mutant candidates were identified by their ability to suppress the large plaques that the AmpA overexpressing cells form on bacterial lawns as a result of their increased rate of migration. One suppressor gene, sma, encodes an uncharacterized protein, which contains a SAP DNA-binding domain and a PTEN-like domain. Using sma gene knockouts and Sma-mRFP expressing cell lines, a role for sma in influencing cell migration was uncovered. Knockouts of the sma gene in a wild-type background enhanced chemotaxis. An additional role for Sma in influencing cell-cell adhesion was also demonstrated. Sma protein transitions between cytosolic and nuclear localizations as a function of cell density. In growing cells migrating to folic acid it is localized to regions of actin polymerization and absent from the nucleus. A role for Sma in influencing ampA mRNA levels is also demonstrated. Sma additionally appears to be involved in ampA pathways regulating cell size, actin polymerization, and cell substrate adhesion. We present insights to the SAP domain-containing group of proteins in Dictyostelium and provide evidence of a role for a SAP domain-containing protein shuttling from the nucleus to sites of actin polymerization during chemotaxis to folic acid and influencing the efficiency of migration.

Kee, Y. S. and D. N. Robinson (2013). "Micropipette aspiration for studying cellular mechanosensory responses and mechanics." Methods Mol Biol 983: 367-382.
	Micropipette aspiration (MPA) is a widely applied method for studying cortical tension and deformability. Based on simple hydrostatic principles, this assay allows the application of a specific magnitude of mechanical stress on cells. This powerful method has revealed insights about cell mechanics and mechanosensing, not only in Dictyostelium discoideum but also in other cell types. In this chapter, we present how to set up a micropipette aspiration system and the experimental procedures for determining cortical tension and mechanosensory responses.

Kataria, R., et al. (2013). "Dictyostelium Ric8 is a nonreceptor guanine exchange factor for heterotrimeric G proteins and is important for development and chemotaxis." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 110(16): 6424-6429.
	Heterotrimeric G proteins couple external signals to the activation of intracellular signal transduction pathways. Agonist-stimulated guanine nucleotide exchange activity of G-protein-coupled receptors results in the exchange of G-protein-bound GDP to GTP and the dissociation and activation of the complex into Galpha-GTP and a Gbetagamma dimer. In Dictyostelium, a basal chemotaxis pathway consisting of heterotrimeric and monomeric G proteins is sufficient for chemotaxis. Symmetry breaking and amplification of chemoattractant sensing occurs between heterotrimeric G protein signaling and Ras activation. In a pull-down screen coupled to mass spectrometry, with Galpha proteins as bait, we have identified resistant to inhibitors of cholinesterase 8 (Ric8) as a nonreceptor guanine nucleotide exchange factor for Galpha-protein. Ric8 is not essential for the initial activation of heterotrimeric G proteins or Ras by uniform chemoattractant; however, it amplifies Galpha signaling, which is essential for Ras-mediated symmetry breaking during chemotaxis and development.

Kataria, R., et al. (2013). "Reply to Tall et al.: Dictyostelium Ric8 does not have a chaperoning function during development and chemotaxis." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 110(34): E3149.
	
Kapil, C., et al. (2013). "Systematic analysis of proteomes with emphasis on insertions in malaria parasite Plasmodium falciparum." Protein Pept Lett 20(10): 1088-1097.
	Protein insertion sequences and their biological role in many organisms have been largely unknown. Here we study proteomes of 12 organisms of diverse genomes for insertion length and amino acid preferences. A total of 871 common proteins were catalogued amongst the 12 organisms for structure based sequence alignment. This underscores the key observations: (i) AT-richness seems to have no implication on the average protein length in an organism as only Dictyostelium discoideum and Plasmodium falciparum encode proteins of high average length (ii) all studied organisms possess insertion in their proteins, however > 40 residue length insertions and unique insertions were abundant in pathogen proteomes of Plasmodium falciparum followed by Toxoplasma gondii and Leishmania major, suggesting accessory structural and functional features that may favour evolutionary fitness. (iii) Glu and Asp residues are over-represented in most proteomes irrespective of AT/GC compositions or pathogenecity with an exception of Plasmodium falciparum where Asn dominates (iv) Abundance of Asn residues in Plasmodium falciparum is exceptional given that this feature is not common to other AT-rich genomes. In conclusion, this bioinformatics based study provides comprehensive knowledge of insertions and residue's preference among pathogen proteins, which can be exploited for further inhibitor studies.

Kalweit, A. and C. Hammann (2013). "G17-modified hammerhead ribozymes are active in vitro and in vivo." Rna 19(12): 1595-1604.
	Natural hammerhead ribozymes (HHRz) feature tertiary interactions between hairpin loops or bulges in two of three helices that surround the catalytic core of conserved nucleotides. Their conservation was originally established on minimal versions lacking the tertiary interactions. While those sequence requirements in general also apply to natural versions, we show here differences for the HHRz cleavage site N17. A guanosine at this position strongly impairs cleavage activity in minimal versions, whereas we observe for the G17 variants of four tertiary stabilized HHRz significant cleavage and ligation activity in vitro. Kinetic analyses of these variants revealed a reduced rate and extent of cleavage, compared with wild-type sequences, while variants with distorted tertiary interactions cleaved at a reduced rate, but to the same extent. Contrary to this, G17 variants exhibit similar in vitro ligation activity as compared with the respective wild-type motif. To also address the catalytic performance of these motifs in vivo, we have inserted HHRz cassettes in the lacZ gene and tested this beta-galactosidase reporter in Dictyostelium discoideum. In colorimetric assays, we observe differences in the enzymatic activity of beta-galactosidase, which correlate well with the activity of the different HHRz variants in vitro and which can be unambiguously attributed to ribozyme cleavage by primer extension analysis.

Junemann, A., et al. (2013). "ForC lacks canonical formin activity but bundles actin filaments and is required for multicellular development of Dictyostelium cells." Eur J Cell Biol 92(6-7): 201-212.
	Diaphanous-related formins (DRFs) drive the nucleation and elongation of linear actin filaments downstream of Rho GTPase signalling pathways. Dictyostelium formin C (ForC) resembles a DRF, except that it lacks a genuine formin homology domain 1 (FH1), raising the questions whether or not ForC can nucleate and elongate actin filaments. We found that a recombinant ForC-FH2 fragment does not nucleate actin polymerization, but moderately decreases the rate of spontaneous actin assembly and disassembly, although the barbed-end elongation rate in the presence of the formin was not markedly changed. However, the protein bound to and crosslinked actin filaments into loose bundles of mixed polarity. Furthermore, ForC is an important regulator of morphogenesis since ForC-null cells are severely impaired in development resulting in the formation of aberrant fruiting bodies. Immunoblotting revealed that ForC is absent during growth, but becomes detectable at the onset of early aggregation when cells chemotactically stream together to form a multicellular organism, and peaks around the culmination stage. Fluorescence microscopy of cells ectopically expressing a GFP-tagged, N-terminal ForC fragment showed its prominent accumulation in the leading edge, suggesting that ForC may play a role in cell migration. In agreement with its expression profile, no defects were observed in random migration of vegetative mutant cells. Notably, chemotaxis of starved cells towards a source of cAMP was severely impaired as opposed to control. This was, however, largely due to a marked developmental delay of the mutant, as evidenced by the expression profile of the early developmental marker csA. In line with this, chemotaxis was almost restored to wild type levels after prolonged starvation. Finally, we observed a complete failure of phototaxis due to abolished slug formation and a massive reduction of spores consistent with forC promoter-driven expression of beta-galactosidase in prespore cells. Together, these findings demonstrate ForC to be critically involved in signalling of the cytoskeleton during various stages of development.

Jingushi, K., et al. (2013). "Differentiation-inducing factor-1 suppresses the expression of c-Myc in the human cancer cell lines." J Pharmacol Sci 121(2): 103-109.
	Differentiation-inducing factor-1 (DIF-1), a morphogen for Dictyostelium discoideum, inhibits the proliferation of human cancer cell lines by suppressing the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway. In this study, we examined the effect of DIF-1 on c-Myc, a target gene product of the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway, mainly using HCT-116 colon cancer cells. DIF-1 strongly reduced the amount of c-Myc protein in time- and concentration-dependent manners and reduced c-Myc mRNA expression by inhibiting promoter activity through the TCF binding sites. The effect of DIF-1 on c-Myc was also confirmed using the human cervical cell line HeLa. Pretreatment with the proteasome inhibitor MG132 or glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK-3beta) inhibitors (LiCl and SB216763) attenuated the effect of DIF-1, suggesting that DIF-1 induced c-Myc protein degradation through GSK-3beta activation. Furthermore, we examined whether c-Myc was involved in the anti-proliferative effect of DIF-1 using c-Myc-overexpressing cells and found that c-Myc was associated with the anti-proliferative effect of this compound. These results suggest that DIF-1 inhibits c-Myc expression by inhibiting promoter activity and inducing protein degradation via GSK-3beta activation, resulting in the inhibition of cell proliferation. Since c-Myc seems to be profoundly involved in accelerated proliferation of various malignant tumors, DIF-1 may have a potential to develop into a novel anti-cancer agent.

Iwadate, Y., et al. (2013). "Myosin-II-mediated directional migration of Dictyostelium cells in response to cyclic stretching of substratum." Biophys J 104(4): 748-758.
	Living cells are constantly subjected to various mechanical stimulations, such as shear flow, osmotic pressure, and hardness of substratum. They must sense the mechanical aspects of their environment and respond appropriately for proper cell function. Cells adhering to substrata must receive and respond to mechanical stimuli from the substrata to decide their shape and/or migrating direction. In response to cyclic stretching of the elastic substratum, intracellular stress fibers in fibroblasts and endothelial, osteosarcoma, and smooth muscle cells are rearranged perpendicular to the stretching direction, and the shape of those cells becomes extended in this new direction. In the case of migrating Dictyostelium cells, cyclic stretching regulates the direction of migration, and not the shape, of the cell. The cells migrate in a direction perpendicular to that of the stretching. However, the molecular mechanisms that induce the directional migration remain unknown. Here, using a microstretching device, we recorded green fluorescent protein (GFP)-myosin-II dynamics in Dictyostelium cells on an elastic substratum under cyclic stretching. Repeated stretching induced myosin II localization equally on both stretching sides in the cells. Although myosin-II-null cells migrated randomly, myosin-II-null cells expressing a variant of myosin II that cannot hydrolyze ATP migrated perpendicular to the stretching. These results indicate that Dictyostelium cells accumulate myosin II at the portion of the cell where a large strain is received and migrate in a direction other than that of the portion where myosin II accumulated. This polarity generation for migration does not require the contraction of actomyosin.

Ito, T., et al. (2013). "Catalytic mechanism of serine racemase from Dictyostelium discoideum." Amino Acids 44(3): 1073-1084.
	The eukaryotic serine racemase from Dictyostelium discoideum is a fold-type II pyridoxal 5'-phosphate (PLP)-dependent enzyme that catalyzes racemization and dehydration of both isomers of serine. In the present study, the catalytic mechanism and role of the active site residues of the enzyme were examined by site-directed mutagenesis. Mutation of the PLP-binding lysine (K56) to alanine abolished both serine racemase and dehydrase activities. Incubation of D- and L-serine with the resultant mutant enzyme, K56A, resulted in the accumulation of PLP-serine external aldimine, while less amounts of pyruvate, alpha-aminoacrylate, antipodal serine and quinonoid intermediate were formed. An alanine mutation of Ser81 (S81) located on the opposite side of K56 against the PLP plane converted the enzyme from serine racemase to L-serine dehydrase; S81A showed no racemase activity and had significantly reduced D-serine dehydrase activity, but it completely retained its L-serine dehydrase activity. Water molecule(s) at the active site of the S81A mutant enzyme probably drove D-serine dehydration by abstracting the alpha-hydrogen in D-serine. Our data suggest that the abstraction and addition of alpha-hydrogen to L- and D-serine are conducted by K56 and S81 at the si- and re-sides, respectively, of PLP.

Hykollari, A., et al. (2013). "Mass spectrometric analysis of neutral and anionic N-glycans from a Dictyostelium discoideum model for human congenital disorder of glycosylation CDG IL." J Proteome Res 12(3): 1173-1187.
	The HL241 mutant strain of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum is a potential model for human congenital disorder of glycosylation type IL (ALG9-CDG) and has been previously predicted to possess a lower degree of modification of its N-glycans with anionic moieties than the parental wild-type. In this study, we first showed that this strain has a premature stop codon in its alg9 mannosyltransferase gene compatible with the occurrence of truncated N-glycans. These were subject to an optimized analytical workflow, considering that the mass spectrometry of acidic glycans often presents challenges due to neutral loss and suppression effects. Therefore, the protein-bound N-glycans were first fractionated, after serial enzymatic release, by solid phase extraction. Then primarily single glycan species were isolated by mixed hydrophilic-interaction/anion-exchange or reversed-phase HPLC and analyzed using chemical and enzymatic treatments and MS/MS. We show that protein-linked N-glycans of the mutant are of reduced size as compared to those of wild-type AX3, but still contain core alpha1,3-fucose, intersecting N-acetylglucosamine, bisecting N-acetylglucosamine, methylphosphate, phosphate, and sulfate residues. We observe that a single N-glycan can carry up to four of these six possible modifications. Due to the improved analytical procedures, we reveal fuller details regarding the N-glycomic potential of this fascinating model organism.

Huber, R. J., et al. (2013). "Cyclin-dependent kinase 5 is a calmodulin-binding protein that associates with puromycin-sensitive aminopeptidase in the nucleus of Dictyostelium." Biochim Biophys Acta 1833(1): 11-20.
	Cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5) is a serine/threonine kinase that has been implicated in a number of cellular processes. In Dictyostelium, Cdk5 localizes to the nucleus and cytoplasm, interacts with puromycin-sensitive aminopeptidase A (PsaA), and regulates endocytosis, secretion, growth, and multicellular development. Here we show that Cdk5 is a calmodulin (CaM)-binding protein (CaMBP) in Dictyostelium. Cdk5, PsaA, and CaM were all present in isolated nuclei and Cdk5 and PsaA co-immunoprecipitated with nuclear CaM. Although nuclear CaMBPs have previously been identified in Dictyostelium, the detection of CaM in purified nuclear fractions had not previously been shown. Putative CaM-binding domains (CaMBDs) were identified in Cdk5 and PsaA. Deletion of one of the two putative CaMBDs in Cdk5 ((132)LLINRKGELKLADFGLARAFGIP(154)) prevented CaM-binding indicating that this region encompasses a functional CaMBD. This deletion also increased the nuclear distribution of Cdk5 suggesting that CaM regulates the nucleocytoplasmic transport of Cdk5. A direct binding between CaM and PsaA could not be determined since deletion of the one putative CaMBD in PsaA prevented the nuclear localization of the deletion protein. Together, this study provides the first direct evidence for nuclear CaM in Dictyostelium and the first evidence in any system for Cdk5 being a CaMBP.

Hofmann, P., et al. (2013). "Transcript localization in Dictyostelium discoideum cells by RNA FISH." Methods Mol Biol 983: 311-323.
	Biogenesis of ribosomal RNA (rRNA) takes place preliminary in the nucleolus of eukaryotic cells, the site of rDNA transcription. Several processing steps of rRNA molecules have been implied to take place in the cytoplasm. To follow these processing events we have adapted protocols for fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) for use in Dictyostelium discoideum. We describe methods for the generation of suitable fluorescently labeled probes and the fixation of cells, by which we have localized different precursor and mature rRNA molecules to the nucleolus or the cytoplasm, respectively.

Hoffmann, C., et al. (2013). "Pathogen vacuole purification from legionella-infected amoeba and macrophages." Methods Mol Biol 954: 309-321.
	Legionella pneumophila replicates intracellularly in environmental and immune phagocytes within a unique membrane-bound compartment, the Legionella-containing vacuole (LCV). Formation of LCVs is strictly dependent on the Icm/Dot type IV secretion system and the translocation of "effector" proteins into the cell. Some effector proteins decorate the LCV membrane and subvert host cell vesicle trafficking pathways. Here we describe a method to purify intact LCVs from Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae and RAW 264.7 murine macrophages. The method comprises a two-step protocol: first, LCVs are enriched by immuno-magnetic separation using an antibody against a bacterial effector protein specifically localizing to the LCV membrane, and second, the LCVs are further purified by density gradient centrifugation. The purified LCVs can be characterized by proteomics and other biochemical approaches.

Hoeller, O., et al. (2013). "Two distinct functions for PI3-kinases in macropinocytosis." J Cell Sci 126(Pt 18): 4296-4307.
	Class-1 PI3-kinases are major regulators of the actin cytoskeleton, whose precise contributions to chemotaxis, phagocytosis and macropinocytosis remain unresolved. We used systematic genetic ablation to examine this question in growing Dictyostelium cells. Mass spectroscopy shows that a quintuple mutant lacking the entire genomic complement of class-1 PI3-kinases retains only 10% of wild-type PtdIns(3,4,5)P3 levels. Chemotaxis to folate and phagocytosis of bacteria proceed normally in the quintuple mutant but macropinocytosis is abolished. In this context PI3-kinases show specialized functions, only one of which is directly linked to gross PtdIns(3,4,5)P3 levels: macropinosomes originate in patches of PtdIns(3,4,5)P3, with associated F-actin-rich ruffles, both of which depend on PI3-kinase 1/2 (PI3K1/2) but not PI3K4, whereas conversion of ruffles into vesicles requires PI3K4. A biosensor derived from the Ras-binding domain of PI3K1 suggests that Ras is activated throughout vesicle formation. Binding assays show that RasG and RasS interact most strongly with PI3K1/2 and PI3K4, and single mutants of either Ras have severe macropinocytosis defects. Thus, the fundamental function of PI3-kinases in growing Dictyostelium cells is in macropinocytosis where they have two distinct functions, supported by at least two separate Ras proteins.

Ho, H. I., et al. (2013). "Kin recognition protects cooperators against cheaters." Curr Biol 23(16): 1590-1595.
	The evolution of sociality and altruism is enigmatic because cooperators are constantly threatened by cheaters who benefit from cooperation without incurring its full cost [1, 2]. Kin recognition is the ability to recognize and cooperate with genetically close relatives. It has also been proposed as a potential mechanism that limits cheating [3, 4], but there has been no direct experimental support for that possibility. Here we show that kin recognition protects cooperators against cheaters. The social amoebae Dictyostelium discoideum cooperate by forming multicellular aggregates that develop into fruiting bodies of viable spores and dead stalk cells. Cheaters preferentially differentiate into spores while their victims die as stalk cells in chimeric aggregates. We engineered syngeneic cheaters and victims that differed only in their kin-recognition genes, tgrB1 and tgrC1, and in a single cheater allele and found that the victims escaped exploitation by different types of nonkin cheaters. This protection depends on kin-recognition-mediated segregation because it is compromised when we disrupt strain segregation. These findings provide direct evidence for the role of kin recognition in cheater control and suggest a mechanism for the maintenance of stable cooperative systems.

Hernandez-Buquer, S. and B. J. Blacklock (2013). "Site-directed mutagenesis of a fatty acid elongase ELO-like condensing enzyme." FEBS Lett 587(23): 3837-3842.
	The condensation step of fatty acid elongation is the addition of a C2 unit from malonyl-CoA to an acyl primer catalyzed by one of two families of enzymes, the 3-ketoacyl-CoA synthases and the ELO-like condensing enzymes. 3-Ketoacyl-CoA synthases use a Claisen-like reaction mechanism while the mechanism of the ELO-catalyzed condensation reaction is unknown. We have used site-directed mutagenesis of Dictyostelium discoideum EloA to identify residues important to catalytic activity and/or structure. Mutation of highly conserved polar residues to alanine resulted in an inactive enzyme strongly suggesting that these residues play a role in the condensation reaction.

Herlihy, S. E., et al. (2013). "A Dictyostelium secreted factor requires a PTEN-like phosphatase to slow proliferation and induce chemorepulsion." PLoS One 8(3): e59365.
	In Dictyostelium discoideum, AprA and CfaD are secreted proteins that inhibit cell proliferation. We found that the proliferation of cells lacking CnrN, a phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN)-like phosphatase, is not inhibited by exogenous AprA and is increased by exogenous CfaD. The expression of CnrN in cnrN cells partially rescues these altered sensitivities, suggesting that CnrN is necessary for the ability of AprA and CfaD to inhibit proliferation. Cells lacking CnrN accumulate normal levels of AprA and CfaD. Like cells lacking AprA and CfaD, cnrN cells proliferate faster and reach a higher maximum cell density than wild type cells, tend to be multinucleate, accumulate normal levels of mass and protein per nucleus, and form less viable spores. When cnrN cells expressing myc-tagged CnrN are stimulated with a mixture of rAprA and rCfaD, levels of membrane-associated myc-CnrN increase. AprA also causes chemorepulsion of Dictyostelium cells, and CnrN is required for this process. Combined, these results suggest that CnrN functions in a signal transduction pathway downstream of AprA and CfaD mediating some, but not all, of the effects of AprA and CfaD.

Herlihy, S. E., et al. (2013). "Dipeptidyl peptidase IV is a human and murine neutrophil chemorepellent." J Immunol 190(12): 6468-6477.
	In Dictyostelium discoideum, AprA is a secreted protein that inhibits proliferation and causes chemorepulsion of Dictyostelium cells, yet AprA has little sequence similarity to any human proteins. We found that a predicted structure of AprA has similarity to human dipeptidyl peptidase IV (DPPIV). DPPIV is a serine protease present in extracellular fluids that cleaves peptides with a proline or alanine in the second position. In Insall chambers, DPPIV gradients below, similar to, and above the human serum DPPIV concentration cause movement of human neutrophils away from the higher concentration of DPPIV. A 1% DPPIV concentration difference between the front and back of the cell is sufficient to cause chemorepulsion. Neutrophil speed and viability are unaffected by DPPIV. DPPIV inhibitors block DPPIV-mediated chemorepulsion. In a murine model of acute respiratory distress syndrome, aspirated bleomycin induces a significant increase in the number of neutrophils in the lungs after 3 d. Oropharyngeal aspiration of DPPIV inhibits the bleomycin-induced accumulation of mouse neutrophils. These results indicate that DPPIV functions as a chemorepellent of human and mouse neutrophils, and they suggest new mechanisms to inhibit neutrophil accumulation in acute respiratory distress syndrome.

Hayes, A. C., et al. (2013). "Identification of N-acylethanolamines in Dictyostelium discoideum and confirmation of their hydrolysis by fatty acid amide hydrolase." J Lipid Res 54(2): 457-466.
	N-acylethanolamines (NAEs) are endogenous lipid-based signaling molecules best known for their role in the endocannabinoid system in mammals, but they are also known to play roles in signaling pathways in plants. The regulation of NAEs in vivo is partly accomplished by the enzyme fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH), which hydrolyses NAEs to ethanolamine and their corresponding fatty acid. Inhibition of FAAH has been shown to increase the levels of NAEs in vivo and to produce desirable phenotypes. This has led to the development of pharmaceutical-based therapies for a variety of conditions targeting FAAH. Recently, our group identified a functional FAAH homolog in Dictyostelium discoideum, leading to our hypothesis that D. discoideum also possesses NAEs. In this study, we provide a further characterization of FAAH and identify NAEs in D. discoideum for the first time. We also demonstrate the ability to modulate their levels in vivo through the use of a semispecific FAAH inhibitor and confirm that these NAEs are FAAH substrates through in vitro studies. We believe the demonstration of the in vivo modulation of NAE levels suggests that D. discoideum could be a good simple model organism in which to study NAE-mediated signaling.

Harwood, A. J., et al. (2013). "Aberrant spindle dynamics and cytokinesis in Dictyostelium discoideum cells that lack glycogen synthase kinase 3." Eur J Cell Biol 92(6-7): 222-228.
	Eukaryotic cell division requires the co-ordinated assembly and disassembly of the mitotic spindle, accurate chromosome segregation and temporal control of cytokinesis to generate two daughter cells. While the absolute details of these processes differ between organisms, there are evolutionarily conserved core components common to all eukaryotic cells, whose identification will reveal the key processes that control cell division. Glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK-3) is a major protein kinase found throughout the eukaryotes and regulates many processes, including cell differentiation, growth, motility and apoptosis. In animals, GSK-3 associates with mitotic spindles and its inhibition causes mis-regulation of chromosome segregation. Two suppressor screens in yeast point to a more general effect of GSK-3 on cell division, however the direct role of GSK-3 in control of mitosis has not been explored outside the animal kingdom. Here we report that the Dictyostelium discoideum GSK-3 orthologue, GskA, associates with the mitotic spindle during cell division, as seen for its mammalian counterparts. Dictyostelium possesses only a single GSK-3 gene that can be deleted to eliminate all GSK-3 activity. We found that gskA-null mutants failed to elongate their mitotic spindle and were unable to divide in shaking culture, but have no chromosome segregation defect. These results suggest further conservation for the role of GSK-3 in the regulation of spindle dynamics during mitosis, but also reveal differences in the mechanisms ensuring accurate chromosome segregation.

Hall, D. W., et al. (2013). "The rate and effects of spontaneous mutation on fitness traits in the social amoeba, Dictyostelium discoideum." G3 (Bethesda) 3(7): 1115-1127.
	We performed a mutation accumulation (MA) experiment in the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum to estimate the rate and distribution of effects of spontaneous mutations affecting eight putative fitness traits. We found that the per-generation mutation rate for most fitness components is 0.0019 mutations per haploid genome per generation or larger. This rate is an order of magnitude higher than estimates for fitness components in the unicellular eukaryote Saccharomyces cerevisiae, even though the base-pair substitution rate is two orders of magnitude lower. The high rate of fitness-altering mutations observed in this species may be partially explained by a large mutational target relative to S. cerevisiae. Fitness-altering mutations also may occur primarily at simple sequence repeats, which are common throughout the genome, including in coding regions, and may represent a target that is particularly likely to give fitness effects upon mutation. The majority of mutations had deleterious effects on fitness, but there was evidence for a substantial fraction, up to 40%, being beneficial for some of the putative fitness traits. Competitive ability within the multicellular slug appears to be under weak directional selection, perhaps reflecting the fact that slugs are sometimes, but not often, comprised of multiple clones in nature. Evidence for pleiotropy among fitness components across MA lines was absent, suggesting that mutations tend to act on single fitness components.

Hadwiger, J. A. (2013). "Role of the Vps9-domain protein RgfA in Dictyostelium chemotaxis and development." Can J Microbiol 59(1): 22-27.
	Proteins with a Vps9 domain function as guanine nucleotide exchange factors for Rab proteins and can mediate the uptake of cell surface receptors or other molecules through endocytosis. However, genes encoding these proteins have not been previously studied in cells with robust chemotactic capabilities. Several genes encoding Vps9 domains were identified in the genome of Dictyostelium discoideum, and one of the genes, designated as rgfA (DDB_G0272038), was examined for functions in cell growth, development, and chemotaxis. The rgfA gene was expressed during vegetative growth and throughout development, but disruption of this gene resulted in no major alterations in cell growth, macropinocytosis, developmental morphology, or chemotactic movement. However, heterologous expression of RgfA resulted in a delay of developmental morphogenesis and impaired chemotaxis of cells to folate but did not affect macropinocytosis. These results suggest that RgfA might share redundant functions with other Dictyostelium Vps9-domain proteins and that heterologous expression of this protein can alter processes that depend on the reception of external signals.

Habourdin, C., et al. (2013). "The arrestin-domain containing protein AdcA is a response element to stress." Cell Commun Signal 11: 91.
	BACKGROUND: Cell behaviour is tightly determined by sensing and integration of extracellular changes through membrane detectors such as receptors and transporters and activation of downstream signalling cascades. Arrestin proteins act as scaffolds at the plasma membrane and along the endocytic pathway, where they regulate the activity and the fate of some of these detectors. Members of the arrestin clan are widely present from unicellular to metazoa, with roles in signal transduction and metabolism. As a soil amoeba, Dictyostelium is frequently confronted with environmental changes likely to compromise survival. Here, we investigated whether the recently described arrestin-related protein AdcA is part of the cell response to stresses. RESULTS: Our data provide evidence that AdcA responds to a variety of stresses including hyperosmolarity by a transient phosphorylation. Analysis in different mutant backgrounds revealed that AdcA phosphorylation involves pathways other than the DokA and cGMP-dependent osmostress pathways, respectively known to regulate PKA and STATc, key actors in the cellular response to conditions of hyperosmolarity. Interestingly, however, both AdcA and STATc are sensitive to changes in the F-actin polymerization status, suggesting a common primary sensor/trigger and linking the stress-sensitive kinase responsive for AdcA phosphorylation to the actin cytoskeleton. We also show that STATc-dependent transcriptional activity is involved for the timely dephosphorylation of AdcA in cells under stress. CONCLUSION: Under osmotic stress, AdcA undergoes a phosphorylation-dephosphorylation cycle involving a stress-sensitive kinase and the transcription regulator STATc. This transient post-transcriptional modification may allow a regulation of AdcA function possibly to optimize the cellular stress response.

Guven, C., et al. (2013). "Modeling and measuring signal relay in noisy directed migration of cell groups." PLoS Comput Biol 9(5): e1003041.
	We develop a coarse-grained stochastic model for the influence of signal relay on the collective behavior of migrating Dictyostelium discoideum cells. In the experiment, cells display a range of collective migration patterns, including uncorrelated motion, formation of partially localized streams, and clumping, depending on the type of cell and the strength of the external, linear concentration gradient of the signaling molecule cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP). From our model, we find that the pattern of migration can be quantitatively described by the competition of two processes, the secretion rate of cAMP by the cells and the degradation rate of cAMP in the gradient chamber. Model simulations are compared to experiments for a wide range of strengths of an external linear-gradient signal. With degradation, the model secreting cells form streams and efficiently transverse the gradient, but without degradation, we find that model secreting cells form clumps without streaming. This indicates that the observed effective collective migration in streams requires not only signal relay but also degradation of the signal. In addition, our model allows us to detect and quantify precursors of correlated motion, even when cells do not exhibit obvious streaming.

Grace, M. and M. T. Hutt (2013). "Predictability of spatio-temporal patterns in a lattice of coupled FitzHugh-Nagumo oscillators." J R Soc Interface 10(81): 20121016.
	In many biological systems, variability of the components can be expected to outrank statistical fluctuations in the shaping of self-organized patterns. In pioneering work in the late 1990s, it was hypothesized that a drift of cellular parameters (along a 'developmental path'), together with differences in cell properties ('desynchronization' of cells on the developmental path) can establish self-organized spatio-temporal patterns (in their example, spiral waves of cAMP in a colony of Dictyostelium discoideum cells) starting from a homogeneous state. Here, we embed a generic model of an excitable medium, a lattice of diffusively coupled FitzHugh-Nagumo oscillators, into a developmental-path framework. In this minimal model of spiral wave generation, we can now study the predictability of spatio-temporal patterns from cell properties as a function of desynchronization (or 'spread') of cells along the developmental path and the drift speed of cell properties on the path. As a function of drift speed and desynchronization, we observe systematically different routes towards fully established patterns, as well as strikingly different correlations between cell properties and pattern features. We show that the predictability of spatio-temporal patterns from cell properties contains important information on the pattern formation process as well as on the underlying dynamical system.

Gomibuchi, Y., et al. (2013). "Bulkiness or aromatic nature of tyrosine-143 of actin is important for the weak binding between F-actin and myosin-ADP-phosphate." Biochem Biophys Res Commun 441(4): 844-848.
	Actin filaments (F-actin) interact with myosin and activate its ATPase to support force generation. By comparing crystal structures of G-actin and the quasi-atomic model of F-actin based on high-resolution cryo-electron microscopy, the tyrosine-143 was found to be exposed more than 60A(2) to the solvent in F-actin. Because tyrosine-143 flanks the hydrophobic cleft near the hydrophobic helix that binds to myosin, the mutant actins, of which the tyrosine-143 was replaced with tryptophan, phenylalanine, or isoleucine, were generated using the Dictyostelium expression system. It polymerized significantly poorly when induced by NaCl, but almost normally by KCl. In the presence of phalloidin and KCl, the extents of the polymerization of all the mutant actins were comparable to that of the wild-type actin so that the actin-activated myosin ATPase activity could be reliably compared. The affinity of skeletal heavy meromyosin to F-actin and the maximum ATPase activity (Vmax) were estimated by a double reciprocal plot. The Tyr143Trp-actin showed the higher affinity (smaller Kapp) than that of the wild-type actin, with the Vmax being almost unchanged. The Kapp and Vmax of the Tyr143Phe-actin were similar to those of the wild-type actin. However, the activation by Tyr143Ile-actin was much smaller than the wild-type actin and the accurate determination of Kapp was difficult. Comparison of the myosin ATPase activated by the various mutant actins at the same concentration of F-actin showed that the extent of activation correlates well with the solvent-accessible surface areas (ASA) of the replaced amino acid molecule. Because 1/Kapp reflects the affinity of F-actin for the myosin-ADP-phosphate intermediate (M.ADP.Pi) through the weak binding, these data suggest that the bulkiness or the aromatic nature of the tyrosin-143 is important for the initial binding of the M.ADP.Pi intermediate with F-actin but not for later processes such as the phosphate release.

Gerisch, G., et al. (2013). "Membrane and actin reorganization in electropulse-induced cell fusion." J Cell Sci 126(Pt 9): 2069-2078.
	When cells of Dictyostelium discoideum are exposed to electric pulses they are induced to fuse, yielding motile polykaryotic cells. By combining electron microscopy and direct recording of fluorescent cells, we have studied the emergence of fusion pores in the membranes and the localization of actin to the cell cortex. In response to electric pulsing, the plasma membranes of two contiguous cells are turned into tangles of highly bent and interdigitated membranes. Live-imaging of cells double-labeled for membranes and filamentous actin revealed that actin is induced to polymerize in the fusion zone to temporarily bridge the gaps in the vesiculating membrane. The diffusion of green fluorescent protein (GFP) from one fusion partner to the other was scored using spinning disc confocal microscopy. Fusion pores that allowed intercellular exchange of GFP were formed after a delay, which lasted up to 24 seconds after exposure of the cells to the electric field. These data indicate that the membranes persist in a fusogenic state before pores of about 3 nm diameter are formed.

Garciandia, A. and T. Suarez (2013). "The NMRA/NMRAL1 homologue PadA modulates the expression of extracellular cAMP relay genes during aggregation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev Biol 381(2): 411-422.
	NMRA-like proteins belong to a class of conserved transcriptional regulators that function as direct sensors of the metabolic state of the cell and link basic metabolism to changes in gene expression. PadA was the first NMRA-like protein described in Dictyostelium discoideum and was shown to be necessary for prestalk cell differentiation and correct development. We describe and characterize padA(-) mutant phenotype during the onset of development, which results in the formation of abnormally small territories and impairment of cAMP responses. Transcriptional analysis shows that cAMP-induced gene expression is downregulated in padA(-), particularly the genes that establish the extracellular cAMP relay. The mutant phenotype can be rescued with the constitutive expression of one of these genes, carA, encoding the cAMP receptor. Transcriptional analysis of padA(-)/A15::carA showed that carA maximum mRNA levels were not reached during aggregation. Our data support a regulatory role for PadA on the regulation of extracellular cAMP relay genes during aggregation and suggest that PadA is required to achieve carA full induction.

Garcia, R., et al. (2013). "Dictyostelium discoideum SecG interprets cAMP-mediated chemotactic signals to influence actin organization." Cytoskeleton (Hoboken) 70(5): 269-280.
	Tight control of actin cytoskeletal dynamics is essential for proper cell function and survival. Arf nucleotide binding-site opener (ARNO), a mammalian guanine nucleotide exchange factor for Arf, has been implicated in actin cytoskeletal regulation but its exact role is still unknown. To explore the role of ARNO in this regulation as well as in actin-mediated processes, the Dictyostelium discoideum homolog, SecG, was examined. SecG peaks during aggregation and mound formation. The overexpression of SecG arrests development at the mound stage. SecG overexpressing (SecG OE) cells fail to stream during aggregation. Although carA is expressed, SecG OE cells do not chemotax toward cAMP, indicating SecG is involved in the cellular response to cAMP. This chemotactic defect is specific to cAMP-directed chemotaxis, as SecG OE cells chemotax to folate without impairment and exhibit normal cell motility. The chemotactic defects of the SecG mutants may be due to an impaired cAMP response as evidenced by altered cell polarity and F-actin polymerization after cAMP stimulation. Cells overexpressing SecG have increased filopodia compared to wild type cells, implying that excess SecG causes abnormal organization of F-actin. The general function of the cytoskeleton, however, is not disrupted as the SecG OE cells exhibit proper cell-substrate adhesion. Taken together, the results suggest proper SecG levels are needed for appropriate response to cAMP signaling in order to coordinate F-actin organization during development.

Gao, B., et al. (2013). "Principle for performing attractor transits with single control in Boolean networks." Phys Rev E Stat Nonlin Soft Matter Phys 88(6): 062706.
	We present an algebraic approach to reveal attractor transitions in Boolean networks under single control based on the recently developed matrix semitensor product theory. In this setting, the reachability of attractors is estimated by the state transition matrices. We then propose procedures that compute the shortest control sequence and the result of each step of input (control) exactly. The general derivation is exemplified by numerical simulations for two kinds of gene regulation networks, the protein-nucleic acid interactions network and the cAMP receptor of Dictyostelium discoideum network.

Galardi-Castilla, M., et al. (2013). "Mef2A, a homologue of animal Mef2 transcription factors, regulates cell differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." BMC Dev Biol 13: 12.
	BACKGROUND: Transcription factors from the MADS-box family play a relevant role in cell differentiation and development and include the animal SRF (serum response factor) and MEF2 (myocyte enhancer factor 2) proteins. The social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum contains four genes coding for MADS-box transcription factors, two of these genes code for proteins that are more similar to SRF, and the other two code for proteins that are more similar to MEF2 animal factors. RESULTS: The biological function of one of the two genes that codes for MEF2-related proteins, a gene known as mef2A, is described in this article. This gene is expressed under the transcriptional control of two alternative promoters in growing cells, and its expression is induced during development in prespore cells. Mutant strains where the mef2A gene has been partially deleted were generated to study its biological function. The mutant strains showed reduced growth when feeding on bacteria and were able to develop and form fruiting bodies, but spore production was significantly reduced. A study of developmental markers showed that prespore cells differentiation was impaired in the mutant strains. When mutant and wild-type cells were set to develop in chimeras, mutant spores were underrepresented in the fruiting bodies. The mutant cells were also unable to form spores in vitro. In addition, mutant cells also showed a poor contribution to the formation of the tip-organizer and the upper region of slugs and culminant structures. In agreement with these observations, a comparison of the genes transcribed by mutant and wild-type strains during development indicated that prestalk gene expression was enhanced, while prespore gene expression decreased in the mef2A- strain. CONCLUSIONS: Our data shows that mef2A plays a role in cell differentiation in D. discoideum and modulates the expression of prespore and prestalk genes.

Finsel, I., et al. (2013). "Immunomagnetic purification of fluorescent Legionella-containing vacuoles." Methods Mol Biol 983: 431-443.
	Protozoa are natural reservoirs of the environmental bacterium Legionella pneumophila. Upon inhalation of Legionella-laden aerosols, the amoeba-resistant bacteria replicate within human alveolar macrophages causing the severe pneumonia "Legionnaires' disease." Within host cells, including Dictyostelium discoideum, L. pneumophila establishes a custom-tailored compartment, the Legionella-containing vacuole (LCV). LCV formation requires the bacterial Icm/Dot type IV secretion system and involves a plethora of "effector" proteins, some of which specifically decorate the LCV membrane. This unique feature of LCVs is exploited to isolate the pathogen vacuole by immunomagnetic separation using an antibody against the effector protein SidC. LCV purity is further increased by a subsequent density gradient centrifugation step. The use of red fluorescent L. pneumophila and D. discoideum producing the LCV marker calnexin-GFP allows following the purification by fluorescence microscopy.

Fey, P., et al. (2013). "One stop shop for everything Dictyostelium: dictyBase and the Dicty Stock Center in 2012." Methods Mol Biol 983: 59-92.
	dictyBase (http://dictybase.org), the model organism database for Dictyostelium discoideum, includes the complete genome sequence and expression data for this organism. Relevant literature is integrated into the database, and gene models and functional annotation are manually curated from experimental results and comparative multigenome analyses. dictyBase has recently expanded to include the genome sequences of three additional Dictyostelids and has added new software tools to facilitate multigenome comparisons. The Dicty Stock Center, a strain and plasmid repository for Dictyostelium research, has relocated to Northwestern University in 2009. This allowed us integrating all Dictyostelium resources to better serve the research community. In this chapter, we will describe how to navigate the Web site and highlight some of our newer improvements.

Feasley, C. L., et al. (2013). "N-glycomic and N-glycoproteomic studies in the social amoebae." Methods Mol Biol 983: 205-229.
	N-glycans modify the great majority of all secreted and plasma membrane proteins, which themselves constitute one-third to one-half of the proteome. The ultimate definition of the glycoproteome would be the identification of all the N-glycans attached to all the modified asparaginyl sites of all the proteins, but glycosylation heterogeneity makes this an unachievable goal. However, mass spectrometry in combination with other methods does have the power to deeply mine the N-glycome of Dictyostelium, and characterize glycan profiles at individual sites of glycoproteins. Recent studies from our laboratories using mass spectrometry-based methods have confirmed basic precepts of the N-glycome based on prior classical methods using radiotracer methods, and have extended the scope of glycan diversity and the distribution of glycan types across specific glycoprotein attachment sites. The protocols described here simplify studies of the N-glycome and -glycoproteome, which should prove useful for interpreting mutant phenotypes, conducting interstrain and interspecies comparisons, and investigating glycan functions in glycoproteins of interest.

Farutin, A., et al. (2013). "Amoeboid swimming: a generic self-propulsion of cells in fluids by means of membrane deformations." Phys Rev Lett 111(22): 228102.
	Microorganisms, such as bacteria, algae, or spermatozoa, are able to propel themselves forward thanks to flagella or cilia activity. By contrast, other organisms employ pronounced changes of the membrane shape to achieve propulsion, a prototypical example being the Eutreptiella gymnastica. Cells of the immune system as well as dictyostelium amoebas, traditionally believed to crawl on a substratum, can also swim in a similar way. We develop a model for these organisms: the swimmer is mimicked by a closed incompressible membrane with force density distribution (with zero total force and torque). It is shown that fast propulsion can be achieved with adequate shape adaptations. This swimming is found to consist of an entangled pusher-puller state. The autopropulsion distance over one cycle is a universal linear function of a simple geometrical dimensionless quantity A/V(2/3) (V and A are the cell volume and its membrane area). This study captures the peculiar motion of Eutreptiella gymnastica with simple force distribution.

Faix, J. and I. Weber (2013). "A dual role model for active Rac1 in cell migration." Small GTPases 4(2): 110-115.
	Over time we have come to appreciate that the complex regulation of Rho GTPases involves additional mechanisms beyond the activating role of RhoGEFs, the inactivating function of RhoGAPs and the sequestering activity of RhoGDIs. One class of regulatory mechanisms includes direct modifications of Rho proteins such as isoprenylation, phosphorylation and SUMOylation. Rho GTPases can also regulate each other by means of crosstalk signaling, which is again mostly mediated by GEFs, GAPs and GDIs. More complex mutual regulation ensues when and where two or more Rho proteins activate a common molecular target, i.e., share a common effector. We have recently unraveled a reciprocal mechanism wherein spatiotemporal dynamics of Rac1 activity during migration of Dictyostelium cells is apparently regulated by antagonizing interactions of Rac1-GTP with two distinct effectors. By monitoring specific fluorescent probes, activated Rac1 is simultaneously present at the leading edge, where it participates in Scar/WAVE-mediated actin polymerization, and at the trailing edge, where it induces formation of a DGAP1/cortexillin actin-bundling complex. Strikingly, in addition to their opposed localization, the two populations of activated Rac1 also display opposite kinetics of recruitment to the plasma membrane upon stimulation by chemoattractants. These findings with respect to Rac1 in Dictyostelium suggest a novel principle for regulation of Rho GTPase activity that might also play a role in other cell types and for other Rho family members.

Faix, J., et al. (2013). "The application of the Cre-loxP system for generating multiple knock-out and knock-in targeted loci." Methods Mol Biol 983: 249-267.
	Dictyostelium discoideum is an exceptionally powerful eukaryotic model to study many aspects of growth, development, and fundamental cellular processes. Its small-sized, haploid genome allows highly efficient targeted homologous recombination for gene disruption and knock-in epitope tagging. We previously described a robust system for the generation of multiple gene mutations in Dictyostelium by recycling the Blasticidin S selectable marker after transient expression of the Cre recombinase. We have now further optimized the system for higher efficiency and, additionally, coupled it to both, knock-out and knock-in gene targeting, allowing the characterization of multiple and cooperative gene functions in a single cell line.

Erneux, C. and W. Elong Edimo (2013). "When worlds collide: inositol pyrophosphates and phosphoinositides intersect at the plasma membrane." Biochem J 453(3): e3-4.
	Highly phosphorylated inositol pyrophosphates are present in the cells of many organisms such as yeast, Dictyostelium and mammals. They can act as signal molecules in growth factor and insulin signalling both in cultured cells and in intact mice. Their action involves protein pyrophosphorylation or binding to multiple protein interactors such as PH (pleckstrin homology)-domain-containing proteins. One key enzyme in their synthesis, PPIP5K (diphosphoinositol pentakisphosphate kinase) 1/2, can phosphorylate InsP6 and 5-InsP7 to 1-InsP7 and InsP8 respectively. Stephen Shears's laboratory reported in this issue of the Biochemical Journal that PPIP5K1's unexpectedly high affinity for PtdIns(3,4,5)P3, which is synthesized at the plasma membrane, provides a recruitment mechanism for this enzyme in response to growth factor receptor activation. In competition experiments, they observed that PtdIns(3,4,5)P3 binding to PPIP5K1 could be displaced by inositol pyrophosphates and that PPIP5K1 substrates were more potent inhibitors than PPIP5K1 products. Those findings reveal a mechanism for localized depletion of InsP6 and 5-InsP7 at the plasma membrane and further translocation of PtdIns(3,4,5)P3-binding PH-domain-containing proteins.

Durston, A. J. (2013). "Dictyostelium: The Mathematician's Organism." Curr Genomics 14(6): 355-360.
	This article was to have been written by Kees Weijer, an outstanding pioneer in Dictyostelium research. It was (and is) to celebrate J.T. Bonner's and Weijer's contributions to the field and those of the other great pioneers. Unfortunately, Weijer was unable to write his article, due to ill health and since I have some knowledge of this field, I took it over. The article summarises some main results and ideas in Dictyostelium research and their relevance for development of more advanced organisms.

Durston, A. J. (2013). "Dislocation is a developmental mechanism in Dictyostelium and vertebrates." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 110(49): 19826-19831.
	The excitable cells of Dictyostelium discoideum show traveling waves of signaling and generate a variety of complex wave forms during their morphogenesis. Important among these wave forms is the 3D spiral or scroll wave, which has been proposed previously to have a twisted variant: the "turbine wave." Herein we argue that a D. discoideum scroll or concentric wave territory containing prespore and prestalk cell types can undergo "dislocation": a wave field that initially controls aggregation of a whole developing population of Dictyostelium cells splits into two. This process leads to discontinuity between two connected domains of wave propagation and to specific phenomena, including high-frequency concentric pacemaker activity by the slime mold's scroll-wave tip. The resulting morphogenetic events reveal a unique mechanism in morphogenesis.

Du, X., et al. (2013). "Dictyostelium lipid droplets host novel proteins." Eukaryot Cell 12(11): 1517-1529.
	Across all kingdoms of life, cells store energy in a specialized organelle, the lipid droplet. In general, it consists of a hydrophobic core of triglycerides and steryl esters surrounded by only one leaflet derived from the endoplasmic reticulum membrane to which a specific set of proteins is bound. We have chosen the unicellular organism Dictyostelium discoideum to establish kinetics of lipid droplet formation and degradation and to further identify the lipid constituents and proteins of lipid droplets. Here, we show that the lipid composition is similar to what is found in mammalian lipid droplets. In addition, phospholipids preferentially consist of mainly saturated fatty acids, whereas neutral lipids are enriched in unsaturated fatty acids. Among the novel protein components are LdpA, a protein specific to Dictyostelium, and Net4, which has strong homologies to mammalian DUF829/Tmem53/NET4 that was previously only known as a constituent of the mammalian nuclear envelope. The proteins analyzed so far appear to move from the endoplasmic reticulum to the lipid droplets, supporting the concept that lipid droplets are formed on this membrane.

Douglas, T. E., et al. (2013). "Collection and cultivation of dictyostelids from the wild." Methods Mol Biol 983: 113-124.
	Dictyostelium discoideum is a commonly used model organism for the study of biological processes such as chemotaxis, cell communication, and development. While these studies primarily focus on a single clone, recent work has revealed a host of questions that can only be answered from studies of multiple genetically distinct clones. Understanding intraspecific clone conflict, kin recognition, differential adhesion, and other kinds of interactions likely to occur in the natural soil habitat can only come from studies of multiple clones. Studies of populations of wild isolates are also important for understanding the factors contributing to associations such as species co-occurrences and to observed inter- and intraspecific interactions such as those found between bacteria and D. discoideum. Natural isolates of Dictyostelium are easily found in soil and leaf litter in nearly all habitats. Here we describe a simple and successful method for isolating new wild clones from soil, then isolating single clonal strains, and storing them for future use.

Dilao, R. and M. J. Hauser (2013). "Chemotaxis with directional sensing during Dictyostelium aggregation." C R Biol 336(11-12): 565-571.
	We show that the chemotactic movements of colonies of the starving amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum are driven by a force that depends on both the direction of propagation (directional sensing) of reaction-diffusion chemotactic waves and on the gradient of the concentration of the chemoattractant, solving the chemotactic wave paradox. It is shown that the directional sensing of amoebae is due to the sensitivity of the cells to the time variation of the concentration of the chemoattractant combined with its spatial gradient. It is also shown that chemotaxis exclusively driven by local concentration gradient leads to unstable local motion, preventing cells from aggregation. These findings show that the formation of mounds, which initiate multicellularity in Dictyostelium discoideum, is caused by the sensitivity of the amoebae due to three factors, namely, to the direction of propagation of the chemoattractant, to its spatial gradient, and to the emergence of cAMP "emitting centres", responsible for the local accumulation of the amoebae.

Dias, M., et al. (2013). "Dictyostelium ACAP-A is an ArfGAP involved in cytokinesis, cell migration and actin cytoskeleton dynamics." J Cell Sci 126(Pt 3): 756-766.
	ACAPs and ASAPs are Arf-GTPase-activating proteins with BAR, PH, GAP and ankyrin repeat domains and are known to regulate vesicular traffic and actin cytoskeleton dynamics in mammalian cells. The amoeba Dictyostelium has only two proteins with this domain organization, instead of the six in human, enabling a more precise functional analysis. Genetic invalidation of acapA resulted in multinucleated cells with cytokinesis defects. Mutant acapA(-) cells were hardly motile and their multicellular development was significantly delayed. In addition, formation of filopodial protrusions was deficient in these cells. Conversely, re-expression of ACAP-A-GFP resulted in numerous and long filopodia-like protrusions. Mutagenesis studies showed that the ACAP-A actin remodeling function was dependent on its ability to activate its substrate, the small GTPase ArfA. Likewise, the expression of a constitutively active ArfA*GTP mutant in wild-type cells led to a significant reduction in filopodia length. Together, our data support a role for ACAP-A in the control of the actin cytoskeleton organization and dynamics through an ArfA-dependent mechanism.

Davidson, A. J., et al. (2013). "Abi is required for modulation and stability but not localization or activation of the SCAR/WAVE complex." Eukaryot Cell 12(11): 1509-1516.
	The SCAR/WAVE complex drives actin-based protrusion, cell migration, and cell separation during cytokinesis. However, the contribution of the individual complex members to the activity of the whole remains a mystery. This is primarily because complex members depend on one another for stability, which limits the scope for experimental manipulation. Several studies suggest that Abi, a relatively small complex member, connects signaling to SCAR/WAVE complex localization and activation through its polyproline C-terminal tail. We generated a deletion series of the Dictyostelium discoideum Abi to investigate its exact role in regulation of the SCAR complex and identified a minimal fragment that would stabilize the complex. Surprisingly, loss of either the N terminus of Abi or the C-terminal polyproline tail conferred no detectable defect in complex recruitment to the leading edge or the formation of pseudopods. A fragment containing approximately 20% Abi--and none of the sites that couple to known signaling pathways--allowed the SCAR complex to function with normal localization and kinetics. However, expression of N-terminal Abi deletions exacerbated the cytokinesis defect of the Dictyostelium abi mutant, which was earlier shown to be caused by the inappropriate activation of SCAR. This demonstrates, unexpectedly, that Abi does not mediate the SCAR complex's ability to make pseudopods, beyond its role in complex stability. Instead, we propose that Abi has a modulatory role when the SCAR complex is activated through other mechanisms.

Davidson, A. J., et al. (2013). "The use of streptavidin conjugates as immunoblot loading controls and mitochondrial markers for use with Dictyostelium discoideum." Biotechniques 55(1): 39-41.
	The loading controls used for quantitative immunoblotting of mammalian proteins are not appropriate for use with Dictyostelium discoideum. Actin levels, for example, change greatly during Dictyostelium development. In addition, Dictyostelium-specific antibodies for other potential control proteins are not commercially available. Here we demonstrate the use of labeled streptavidin to detect biotinylated mitochondrial 3-methylcrotonyl-CoA carboxylase alpha (MCCC1), providing a robust and convenient tool for quantitative normalization of Dictyostelium Western blots, as well as fluorescently labeling mitochondria for microscopy of fixed cells.

Davidson, A. J. and R. H. Insall (2013). "SCAR/WAVE: A complex issue." Commun Integr Biol 6(6): e27033.
	The SCAR/WAVE complex drives the actin polymerisation that underlies protrusion of the front of the cell and thus drives migration. However, it is not understood how the activity of SCAR/WAVE is regulated to generate the infinite range of cellular shape changes observed during cell motility. What are the relative roles of the subunits of the SCAR/WAVE complex? What signaling molecules do they interact with? And how does the complex integrate all this information in order to control the temporal and spatial polymerisation of actin during protrusion formation? Unfortunately, the interdependence of SCAR complex members has made genetic dissection hard. In our recent paper,(1) we describe stabilization of the Dictyostelium SCAR complex by a small fragment of Abi. Here we summarize the main findings and discuss how this approach can help reveal the inner workings of this impenetrable complex.

Dang, I., et al. (2013). "Inhibitory signalling to the Arp2/3 complex steers cell migration." Nature 503(7475): 281-284.
	Cell migration requires the generation of branched actin networks that power the protrusion of the plasma membrane in lamellipodia. The actin-related proteins 2 and 3 (Arp2/3) complex is the molecular machine that nucleates these branched actin networks. This machine is activated at the leading edge of migrating cells by Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (WASP)-family verprolin-homologous protein (WAVE, also known as SCAR). The WAVE complex is itself directly activated by the small GTPase Rac, which induces lamellipodia. However, how cells regulate the directionality of migration is poorly understood. Here we identify a new protein, Arpin, that inhibits the Arp2/3 complex in vitro, and show that Rac signalling recruits and activates Arpin at the lamellipodial tip, like WAVE. Consistently, after depletion of the inhibitory Arpin, lamellipodia protrude faster and cells migrate faster. A major role of this inhibitory circuit, however, is to control directional persistence of migration. Indeed, Arpin depletion in both mammalian cells and Dictyostelium discoideum amoeba resulted in straighter trajectories, whereas Arpin microinjection in fish keratocytes, one of the most persistent systems of cell migration, induced these cells to turn. The coexistence of the Rac-Arpin-Arp2/3 inhibitory circuit with the Rac-WAVE-Arp2/3 activatory circuit can account for this conserved role of Arpin in steering cell migration.

Dallaire-Dufresne, S., et al. (2013). "Aeromonas salmonicida Ati2 is an effector protein of the type three secretion system." Microbiology 159(Pt 9): 1937-1945.
	The bacterium Aeromonas salmonicida, a fish pathogen, uses the type three secretion system (TTSS) to inject effector proteins into host cells to promote the infection. The study of the genome of A. salmonicida has revealed the existence of Ati2, a potential TTSS effector protein. In the present study, a structure-function analysis of Ati2 has been done to determine its role in the virulence of A. salmonicida. Biochemical assays revealed that Ati2 is secreted into the medium in a TTSS-dependent manner. Protein sequence analyses, molecular modelling and biochemical assays demonstrated that Ati2 is an inositol polyphosphate 5-phosphatase, which hydrolyses PtdIns(4,5)P2 and PtdIns(3,4,5)P3 in a way similar to VPA0450, a protein from Vibrio parahaemolyticus having high sequence similarity with Ati2. Mutants of Ati2 with altered amino acids at two different locations in the catalytic site displayed no phosphatase activity. Wild-type and mutant forms of Ati2 were cloned into expression systems for Dictyostelium discoideum, a soil amoeba used as an alternative host to study A. salmonicida virulence. Expression tests allowed us to demonstrate that Ati2 is toxic for the host cell in a catalytic-dependent manner. Finally, this study demonstrated the existence of a new TTSS effector protein in A. salmonicida.

Crona, M., et al. (2013). "A rare combination of ribonucleotide reductases in the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum." J Biol Chem 288(12): 8198-8208.
	Ribonucleotide reductases (RNRs) catalyze the only pathway for de novo synthesis of deoxyribonucleotides needed for DNA replication and repair. The vast majority of eukaryotes encodes only a class I RNR, but interestingly some eukaryotes, including the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum, encode both a class I and a class II RNR. The amino acid sequence of the D. discoideum class I RNR is similar to other eukaryotic RNRs, whereas that of its class II RNR is most similar to the monomeric class II RNRs found in Lactobacillus spp. and a few other bacteria. Here we report the first study of RNRs in a eukaryotic organism that encodes class I and class II RNRs. Both classes of RNR genes were expressed in D. discoideum cells, although the class I transcripts were more abundant and strongly enriched during mid-development compared with the class II transcript. The quaternary structure, allosteric regulation, and properties of the diiron-oxo/radical cofactor of D. discoideum class I RNR are similar to those of the mammalian RNRs. Inhibition of D. discoideum class I RNR by hydroxyurea resulted in a 90% reduction in spore formation and decreased the germination viability of the surviving spores by 75%. Class II RNR could not compensate for class I inhibition during development, and an excess of vitamin B12 coenzyme, which is essential for class II activity, did not improve spore formation. We suggest that class I is the principal RNR during D. discoideum development and growth and is important for spore formation, possibly by providing dNTPs for mitochondrial replication.

Couto, C. A., et al. (2013). "Nonhomologous end-joining promotes resistance to DNA damage in the absence of an ADP-ribosyltransferase that signals DNA single strand breaks." J Cell Sci 126(Pt 15): 3452-3461.
	ADP-ribosylation of proteins at DNA lesions by ADP-ribosyltransferases (ARTs) is an early response to DNA damage. The best defined role of ADP-ribosylation in the DNA damage response is in repair of single strand breaks (SSBs). Recently, we initiated a study of how ADP-ribosylation regulates DNA repair in Dictyostelium and found that two ARTs (Adprt1b and Adprt2) are required for tolerance of cells to SSBs, and a third ART (Adprt1a) promotes nonhomologous end-joining (NHEJ). Here we report that disruption of adprt2 results in accumulation of DNA damage throughout the cell cycle following exposure to agents that induce base damage and DNA SSBs. Although ADP-ribosylation is evident in adprt2(-) cells exposed to methylmethanesulfonate (MMS), disruption of adprt1a and adprt2 in combination abolishes this response and further sensitises cells to this agent, indicating that in the absence of Adprt2, Adprt1a signals MMS-induced DNA lesions to promote resistance of cells to DNA damage. As a consequence of defective signalling of SSBs by Adprt2, Adprt1a is required to assemble NHEJ factors in chromatin, and disruption of the NHEJ pathway in combination with adprt2 increases sensitivity of cells to MMS. Taken together, these data indicate overlapping functions of different ARTs in signalling DNA damage, and illustrate a critical requirement for NHEJ in maintaining cell viability in the absence of an effective SSB response.

Couto, A. M., et al. (2013). "Investigation of DNA repair pathway activity." Methods Mol Biol 983: 295-310.
	DNA is constantly being damaged from endogenous and exogenous sources and efficient repair of different types of DNA lesions is essential for the survival of the organism. Dictyostelium is highly resistant to DNA damage and its genome sequence has revealed the presence of multiple repair pathways conserved with vertebrates but lost in other genetically tractable invertebrate models. As such, Dictyostelium is a powerful model organism to study selected human DNA repair pathways and may provide insights into the molecular basis of how cells become resistant to DNA damage. Here we describe a range of assays used to study DNA repair in Dictyostelium. Genes required for repair of DNA damage can be identified and analyzed by comparing the ability of control or mutant cells to survive exposure to genotoxic agents that induce different types of DNA lesion. We also describe assays that assess the presence of markers for DNA repair within chromatin either in the form of posttranslational modification of proteins at sites of damage or the recruitment of repair factors to DNA lesions. Finally, we also describe more direct assays to assess repair of DNA double-strand breaks by either homologous recombination or non-homologous end joining.

Cost, H. N., et al. (2013). "AmpA protein functions by different mechanisms to influence early cell type specification and to modulate cell adhesion and actin polymerization in Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 86(1-2): 1-12.
	The Dictyostelium discoideum ampA gene encodes a multifunctional regulator protein that modulates cell-cell and cell-substrate adhesions and actin polymerization during growth and is necessary for correct cell type specification and patterning during development. Insertional inactivation of the ampA gene results in defects that define two distinct roles for the ampA gene during development. AmpA is necessary in a non-cell autonomous manner to prevent premature expression of a prespore gene marker. It is also necessary in a cell autonomous manner for the anterior like cells, which express the ampA gene, to migrate to the upper cup during culmination. It is also necessary to prevent excessive cell-cell agglutination when cells are developed in a submerged suspension culture. Here, we demonstrate that a supernatant source of AmpA protein, added extracellularly, can prevent the premature mis-expression of the prespore marker. Synthetic oligopeptides are used to identify the domain of the AmpA protein that is important for preventing cells from mis-expressing the prespore gene. We further demonstrate that a factor capable of inducing additional cells to express the prespore gene marker accumulates extracellularly in the absence of AmpA protein. While the secreted AmpA acts extracellularly to suppress prespore gene expression, the effects of AmpA on cell agglutination and on actin polymerization in growing cells are not due to an extracellular role of secreted AmpA protein. Rather, these effects appear to reflect a distinct cell autonomous role of the ampA gene. Finally, we show that secretion of AmpA protein is brought about by elevating the levels of expression of ampA so that the protein accumulates to an excessive level.

Cochran, J. C., et al. (2013). "Metal switch-controlled myosin II from Dictyostelium discoideum supports closure of nucleotide pocket during ATP binding coupled to detachment from actin filaments." J Biol Chem 288(39): 28312-28323.
	G-proteins, kinesins, and myosins are hydrolases that utilize a common protein fold and divalent metal cofactor (typically Mg(2+)) to coordinate purine nucleotide hydrolysis. The nucleoside triphosphorylase activities of these enzymes are activated through allosteric communication between the nucleotide-binding site and the activator/effector/polymer interface to convert the free energy of nucleotide hydrolysis into molecular switching (G-proteins) or force generation (kinesins and myosin). We have investigated the ATPase mechanisms of wild-type and the S237C mutant of non-muscle myosin II motor from Dictyostelium discoideum. The S237C substitution occurs in the conserved metal-interacting switch-1, and we show that this substitution modulates the actomyosin interaction based on the divalent metal present in solution. Surprisingly, S237C shows rapid basal steady-state Mg(2+)- or Mn(2+)-ATPase kinetics, but upon binding actin, its MgATPase is inhibited. This actin inhibition is relieved by Mn(2+), providing a direct and experimentally reversible linkage of switch-1 and the actin-binding cleft through the swapping of divalent metals in the reaction. Using pyrenyl-labeled F-actin, we demonstrate that acto.S237C undergoes slow and weak MgATP binding, which limits the rate of steady-state catalysis. Mn(2+) rescues this effect to near wild-type activity. 2'(3')-O-(N-Methylanthraniloyl)-ADP release experiments show the need for switch-1 interaction with the metal cofactor for tight ADP binding. Our results are consistent with strong reciprocal coupling of nucleoside triphosphate and F-actin binding and provide additional evidence for the allosteric communication pathway between the nucleotide-binding site and the filament-binding region.

Chung, C. Y., et al. (2013). "An attenuating role of a WASP-related protein, WASP-B, in the regulation of F-actin polymerization and pseudopod formation via the regulation of RacC during Dictyostelium chemotaxis." Biochem Biophys Res Commun 436(4): 719-724.
	The WASP family of proteins has emerged as important regulators that connect multiple signaling pathways to regulate the actin cytoskeleton. Dictyostelium cells express WASP, as well as a WASP related protein, WASP-B, endoded by wasB gene. WASP-B contains many of the domains present in WASP. Analysis of wild type, wasB null cells revealed that WASP-B is required for proper control of F-actin polymerization in response to a cAMP gradient. Due to the lack of tight control on actin polymerization, wasB null cells exhibited higher level of F-actin polymerization. wasB(-) cells extend more de novo pseudopods laterally and their average life span is longer than those of wild type cells, causing more turns and inefficient chemotaxis. YFP-WASP-B appears to be uniformly distributed in the cytosol and shows no translocation to cortical membrane upon cAMP stimulation. Active RacC pull-down assay reveals that the level of active RacC in wasB(-) cells is significantly higher than wild type cells. Moreover, the distribution of active RacC is not localized in wasB(-) cells. We conclude that chemotaxis defects of wasB(-) cells are likely to result from the aberrant regulation of RacC activation and localization.

Chubb, J. R., et al. (2013). "Imaging nascent RNA dynamics in Dictyostelium." Methods Mol Biol 1042: 101-113.
	Dictyostelium cells have great utility for live imaging of single gene transcriptional dynamics. The cells allow efficient molecular genetics, for targeting of RNA reporters and fluorescent proteins to individual, defined loci. Dictyostelium cells share many signalling, chromatin and nuclear characteristics of larger eukaryotes, yet the cells have a relatively simple scattered differentiation programme, allowing imaging of transcriptional events in the context of stochastic developmental choices. This review will detail the methods and considerations for imaging nascent RNA dynamics at single genes in living Dictyostelium cells.

Choudhary, A., et al. (2013). "Interphase cytofission maintains genomic integrity of human cells after failed cytokinesis." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 110(32): 13026-13031.
	In cell division, cytokinesis is tightly coupled with mitosis to maintain genomic integrity. Failed cytokinesis in humans can result in tetraploid cells that can become aneuploid and promote cancer. However, the likelihood of aneuploidy and cancer after a failed cytokinesis event is unknown. Here we evaluated cell fate after failed cytokinesis. We interrupted cytokinesis by brief chemical treatments in cell populations of human epithelial lines. Surprisingly, up to 50% of the resulting binucleate cells generated colonies. In RPE1 cells, 90% of colonies obtained from binucleate founders had a karyotype that matched the parental cell type. Time-lapse videomicroscopy demonstrated that binucleate cells are delayed in the first growth phase of the cell cycle (G1) and undergo interphase cellular fission (cytofission) that distributes nuclei into separate daughters. The fission is not compatible with delayed cytokinesis because events occur in the absence of polymerized microtubules and without canonical components of the cytokinetic machinery. However, the cytofission can be interrupted by inhibiting function of actin or myosin II. Fission events occur in both two- and three-dimensional culture. Our data demonstrate that cytofission can preserve genomic integrity after failed cytokinesis. Thus, traction-mediated cytofission, originally observed in Dictyostelium, is relevant to human biology--where it seems to be an evolutionarily conserved mechanism that can preserve genomic integrity.

Choi, C. H., et al. (2013). "Phosphorylation of actin-related protein 2 (Arp2) is required for normal development and cAMP chemotaxis in Dictyostelium." J Biol Chem 288(4): 2464-2474.
	Phosphorylation of the actin-related protein 2 (Arp2) subunit of the Arp2/3 complex on evolutionarily conserved threonine and tyrosine residues was recently identified and shown to be necessary for nucleating activity of the Arp2/3 complex and membrane protrusion of Drosophila cells. Here we use the Dictyostelium diploid system to replace the essential Arp2 protein with mutants that cannot be phosphorylated at Thr-235/6 and Tyr-200. We found that aggregation of the resulting mutant cells after starvation was substantially slowed with delayed early developmental gene expression and that chemotaxis toward a cAMP gradient was defective with loss of polarity and attenuated F-actin assembly. Chemotaxis toward cAMP was also diminished with reduced cell speed and directionality and shorter pseudopod lifetime when Arp2 phosphorylation mutant cells were allowed to develop longer to a responsive state similar to that of wild-type cells. However, clathrin-mediated endocytosis and chemotaxis under agar to folate in vegetative cells were only subtly affected in Arp2 phosphorylation mutants. Thus, phosphorylation of threonine and tyrosine is important for a subset of the functions of the Arp2/3 complex, in particular an unexpected major role in regulating development.

Chen, G., et al. (2013). "TgrC1 mediates cell-cell adhesion by interacting with TgrB1 via mutual IPT/TIG domains during development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem J 452(2): 259-269.
	Cell-cell adhesion plays crucial roles in cell differentiation and morphogenesis during development of Dictyostelium discoideum. The heterophilic adhesion protein TgrC1 (Tgr is transmembrane, IPT, IG, E-set, repeat protein) is expressed during cell aggregation, and disruption of the tgrC1 gene results in the arrest of development at the loose aggregate stage. We have used far-Western blotting coupled with MS to identify TgrB1 as the heterophilic binding partner of TgrC1. Co-immunoprecipitation and pull-down studies showed that TgrB1 and TgrC1 are capable of binding with each other in solution. TgrB1 and TgrC1 are encoded by a pair of adjacent genes which share a common promoter. Both TgrB1 and TgrC1 are type I transmembrane proteins, which contain three extracellular IPT/TIG (immunoglobulin, plexin, transcription factor-like/transcription factor immunoglobulin) domains. Antibodies raised against TgrB1 inhibit cell reassociation at the post-aggregation stage of development and block fruiting body formation. Ectopic expression of TgrB1 and TgrC1 driven by the actin15 promoter leads to heterotypic cell aggregation of vegetative cells. Using recombinant proteins that cover different portions of TgrB1 and TgrC1 in binding assays, we have mapped the cell-binding regions in these two proteins to Lys(537)-Ala(783) in TgrB1 and Ile(336)-Val(360) in TgrC1, corresponding to their respective TIG3 and TIG2 domain.

Chattwood, A., et al. (2013). "Developmental lineage priming in Dictyostelium by heterogeneous Ras activation." Elife 2: e01067.
	In cell culture, genetically identical cells often exhibit heterogeneous behavior, with only 'lineage primed' cells responding to differentiation inducing signals. It has recently been proposed that such heterogeneity exists during normal embryonic development to allow position independent patterning based on 'salt and pepper' differentiation and sorting out. However, the molecular basis of lineage priming and how it leads to reproducible cell type proportioning are poorly understood. To address this, we employed a novel forward genetic approach in the model organism Dictyostelium discoideum. These studies reveal that the Ras-GTPase regulator gefE is required for normal lineage priming and salt and pepper differentiation. This is because Ras-GTPase activity sets the intrinsic response threshold to lineage specific differentiation signals. Importantly, we show that although gefE expression is uniform, transcription of its target, rasD, is both heterogeneous and dynamic, thus providing a novel mechanism for heterogeneity generation and position-independent differentiation. DOI: http://dx.doi.org/10.7554/eLife.01067.001.

Catalano, A. and D. H. O'Day (2013). "Rad53 homologue forkhead-associated kinase A (FhkA) and Ca2+-binding protein 4a (CBP4a) are nucleolar proteins that differentially redistribute during mitosis in Dictyostelium." Cell Div 8(1): 4.
	BACKGROUND: During mitosis most nucleolar proteins redistribute to other locales providing an opportunity to study the relationship between nucleolar protein localization and function. Dictyostelium is a model organism for the study of several fundamental biological processes and human diseases but only two nucleolar proteins have been studied during mitosis: NumA1 and Snf12. Both of them are linked to the cell cycle. To acquire a better understanding of nucleolar protein localization and dynamics in Dictyostelium we studied the nucleolar localization of two additional proteins during mitosis: Snf12-linked forkhead-associated kinase A (FhkA), which is involved in the cell cycle, and Ca2+-binding protein 4a (CBP4a), which is a binding partner of NumA1. METHODS: Polyclonal antibodies were produced in-house. Cells were fixed and probed with either anti-FhkA or anti-CBP4a in order to determine cellular localization during interphase and throughout the stages of mitosis. Colocalization with DAPI nuclear stain allowed us to determine the location of the nucleus and nucleolus while colocalization with anti-alpha-tubulin allowed us to determine the cell cycle stage. RESULTS: Here we verify two novel nucleolar proteins, Rad53 homologue FhkA which localized around the edge of the nucleolus and CBP4a which was detected throughout the entire nucleolus. Treatment with the Ca2+ chelator BAPTA (5 mM) showed that the nucleolar localization of CBP4a is Ca2+-dependent. In response to actinomycin D (0.05 mg/mL) CBP4a disappeared from the nucleolus while FhkA protruded from the nucleus, eventually pinching off as cytoplasmic circles. FhkA and CBP4a redistributed differently during mitosis. FhkA redistributed throughout the entire cell and at the nuclear envelope region from prometaphase through telophase. In contrast, during prometaphase CBP4a relocated to many large, discrete "CBP4a islands" throughout the nucleoplasm. Two larger "CBP4a islands" were also detected specifically at the metaphase plate region. CONCLUSIONS: FhkA and CBP4a represent the sixth and seventh nucleolar proteins that have been verified to date in Dictyostelium and the third and fourth studied during mitosis. The protein-specific distributions of all of these nucleolar proteins during interphase and mitosis provide unique insight into nucleolar protein dynamics in this model organism setting the stage for future work.

Carilla-Latorre, S., et al. (2013). "Ndufaf5 deficiency in the Dictyostelium model: new roles in autophagy and development." Mol Biol Cell 24(10): 1519-1528.
	Ndufaf5 (also known as C20orf7) is a mitochondrial complex I (CI) assembly factor whose mutations lead to human mitochondrial disease. Little is known about the function of the protein and the cytopathological consequences of the mutations. Disruption of Dictyostelium Ndufaf5 leads to CI deficiency and defects in growth and development. The predicted sequence of Ndufaf5 contains a putative methyltransferase domain. Site-directed mutagenesis indicates that the methyltransferase motif is essential for its function. Pathological mutations were recreated in the Dictyostelium protein and expressed in the mutant background. These proteins were unable to complement the phenotypes, which further validates Dictyostelium as a model of the disease. Chronic activation of AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK) has been proposed to play a role in Dictyostelium and human cytopathology in mitochondrial diseases. However, inhibition of the expression of AMPK gene in the Ndufaf5-null mutant does not rescue the phenotypes associated with the lack of Ndufaf5, suggesting that novel AMPK-independent pathways are responsible for Ndufaf5 cytopathology. Of interest, the Ndufaf5-deficient strain shows an increase in autophagy. This phenomenon was also observed in a Dictyostelium mutant lacking MidA (C2orf56/PRO1853/Ndufaf7), another CI assembly factor, suggesting that autophagy activation might be a common feature in mitochondrial CI dysfunction.

Buttery, N. J., et al. (2013). "Measuring cheating, fitness, and segregation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Methods Mol Biol 983: 231-248.
	Dictyostelium has become a model organism for the study of social evolution because of the stage in its life cycle where thousands of independent amoebae together form a fruiting body. Some individuals die to form a stalk that holds aloft the remaining cells for dispersal to new environments as spores. Different genotypes can aggregate together, creating opportunities for exploitation by cheaters that contribute a smaller proportion of cells to the stalk. Clustering of genotypes into separate fruiting bodies reduces the opportunities for cheating. Some genotypes achieve this by segregating after aggregation. Here we describe techniques for assaying cheating and segregation in D. discoideum. We cover how to grow and maintain cells, fluorescently label genotypes, design experiments for accuracy and precision, calculate fitness and segregation, and interpret the results.

Brzostowski, J. A., et al. (2013). "Phosphorylation of chemoattractant receptors regulates chemotaxis, actin reorganization and signal relay." J Cell Sci 126(Pt 20): 4614-4626.
	Migratory cells, including mammalian leukocytes and Dictyostelium, use G-protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) signaling to regulate MAPK/ERK, PI3K, TORC2/AKT, adenylyl cyclase and actin polymerization, which collectively direct chemotaxis. Upon ligand binding, mammalian GPCRs are phosphorylated at cytoplasmic residues, uncoupling G-protein pathways, but activating other pathways. However, connections between GPCR phosphorylation and chemotaxis are unclear. In developing Dictyostelium, secreted cAMP serves as a chemoattractant, with extracellular cAMP propagated as oscillating waves to ensure directional migratory signals. cAMP oscillations derive from transient excitatory responses of adenylyl cyclase, which then rapidly adapts. We have studied chemotactic signaling in Dictyostelium that express non-phosphorylatable cAMP receptors and show through chemotaxis modeling, single-cell FRET imaging, pure and chimeric population wavelet quantification, biochemical analyses and TIRF microscopy, that receptor phosphorylation is required to regulate adenylyl cyclase adaptation, long-range oscillatory cAMP wave production and cytoskeletal actin response. Phosphorylation defects thus promote hyperactive actin polymerization at the cell periphery, misdirected pseudopodia and the loss of directional chemotaxis. Our data indicate that chemoattractant receptor phosphorylation is required to co-regulate essential pathways for migratory cell polarization and chemotaxis. Our results significantly extend the understanding of the function of GPCR phosphorylation, providing strong evidence that this evolutionarily conserved mechanism is required in a signal attenuation pathway that is necessary to maintain persistent directional movement of Dictyostelium, neutrophils and other migratory cells.

Brock, D. A., et al. (2013). "Social amoeba farmers carry defensive symbionts to protect and privatize their crops." Nat Commun 4: 2385.
	Agricultural crops are investments that can be exploited by others. Farmer clones of the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum carry bacteria to seed out new food populations but they also carry other non-food bacteria such as Burkholderia spp. Here we demonstrate that these farmer-carried Burkholderia inhibit the growth of non-farmer D. discoideum clones that could exploit the farmers' crops. Using supernatants, we show that inhibition is due to molecules secreted by Burkholderia. When farmer and non-farmer amoebae are mixed together at various frequencies and allowed to complete the social stage, the ability of non-farmers to produce spores falls off rapidly with an increase in the percentage of farmers and their defensive symbionts. Conversely, farmer spore production is unaffected by the frequency of non-farmers. Our results suggest that successful farming is a complex evolutionary adaptation because it requires additional strategies, such as recruiting third parties, to effectively defend and privatize crops.

Bozzaro, S., et al. (2013). "Dictyostelium host response to legionella infection: strategies and assays." Methods Mol Biol 954: 417-438.
	The professional phagocyte Dictyostelium discoideum is a simple eukaryotic microorganism, whose natural habitat is deciduous forest soil and decaying leaves, where the amoebae feed on bacteria and grow as separate, independent, single cells. In the last decade, the organism has been successfully used as a host for several human pathogens, including Legionella pneumophila, Mycobacterium avium and Mycobacterium marinum,Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Cryptococcus neoformans, and Salmonella typhimurium. To dissect the complex cross-talk between host and pathogen Dictyostelium offers easy cultivation, a high quality genome sequence and excellent molecular genetic and biochemical tools. Dictyostelium cells are also extremely suitable for cell biological studies, which in combination with in vivo expression of fluorescence-tagged proteins allow investigating the dynamics of bacterial uptake and infection. Inactivation of genes by homologous recombination as well as gene rescue and overexpression are well established and a large mutant collection is available at the Dictyostelium stock center, favoring identification of host resistance or susceptibility genes. Here, we briefly introduce the organism, address the value of Dictyostelium as model host, describe strategies to identify host cell factors important for infection followed by protocols for cell culture and storage, uptake and infection, and confocal microscopy of infected cells.

Bozzaro, S., et al. (2013). "Iron metabolism and resistance to infection by invasive bacteria in the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum." Front Cell Infect Microbiol 3: 50.
	Dictyostelium cells are forest soil amoebae, which feed on bacteria and proliferate as solitary cells until bacteria are consumed. Starvation triggers a change in life style, forcing cells to gather into aggregates to form multicellular organisms capable of cell differentiation and morphogenesis. As a soil amoeba and a phagocyte that grazes on bacteria as the obligate source of food, Dictyostelium could be a natural host of pathogenic bacteria. Indeed, many pathogens that occasionally infect humans are hosted for most of their time in protozoa or free-living amoebae, where evolution of their virulence traits occurs. Due to these features and its amenability to genetic manipulation, Dictyostelium has become a valuable model organism for studying strategies of both the host to resist infection and the pathogen to escape the defense mechanisms. Similarly to higher eukaryotes, iron homeostasis is crucial for Dictyostelium resistance to invasive bacteria. Iron is essential for Dictyostelium, as both iron deficiency or overload inhibit cell growth. The Dictyostelium genome shares with mammals many genes regulating iron homeostasis. Iron transporters of the Nramp (Slc11A) family are represented with two genes, encoding Nramp1 and Nramp2. Like the mammalian ortholog, Nramp1 is recruited to phagosomes and macropinosomes, whereas Nramp2 is a membrane protein of the contractile vacuole network, which regulates osmolarity. Nramp1 and Nramp2 localization in distinct compartments suggests that both proteins synergistically regulate iron homeostasis. Rather than by absorption via membrane transporters, iron is likely gained by degradation of ingested bacteria and efflux via Nramp1 from phagosomes to the cytosol. Nramp gene disruption increases Dictyostelium sensitivity to infection, enhancing intracellular growth of Legionella or Mycobacteria. Generation of mutants in other "iron genes" will help identify genes essential for iron homeostasis and resistance to pathogens.

Bozzaro, S. (2013). "The model organism Dictyostelium discoideum." Methods Mol Biol 983: 17-37.
	Much of our knowledge of molecular cellular functions is based on studies with a few number of model organisms that were established during the last 50 years. The social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum is one such model, and has been particularly useful for the study of cell motility, chemotaxis, phagocytosis, endocytic vesicle traffic, cell adhesion, pattern formation, caspase-independent cell death, and, more recently, autophagy and social evolution. As nonmammalian model of human diseases D. discoideum is a newcomer, yet it has proven to be a powerful genetic and cellular model for investigating host-pathogen interactions and microbial infections, for mitochondrial diseases, and for pharmacogenetic studies. The D. discoideum genome harbors several homologs of human genes responsible for a variety of diseases, -including Chediak-Higashi syndrome, lissencephaly, mucolipidosis, Huntington disease, IBMPFD, and Shwachman-Diamond syndrome. A few genes have already been studied, providing new insights on the mechanism of action of the encoded proteins and in some cases on the defect underlying the disease. The opportunities offered by the organism and its place among the nonmammalian models for human diseases will be discussed.

Batsios, P., et al. (2013). "Isolation of Dictyostelium nuclei for light and electron microscopy." Methods Mol Biol 983: 283-294.
	The significance of amoebae for studies of nuclear architecture has considerably increased in the recent years. The availability of a protocol for isolation of nuclei in a quality sufficient for high-resolution light and electron microscopy is a prerequisite for such studies. Here we present a protocol for high enrichment of nuclei by sucrose density-gradient centrifugation. Moreover, we describe how to use these isolated nuclei as specimens for immunofluorescence and immune-electron microscopy of ultrathin sections.

Basu, S., et al. (2013). "DictyBase 2013: integrating multiple Dictyostelid species." Nucleic Acids Res 41(Database issue): D676-683.
	dictyBase (http://dictybase.org) is the model organism database for the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum. This contribution provides an update on dictyBase that has been previously presented. During the past 3 years, dictyBase has taken significant strides toward becoming a genome portal for the whole Amoebozoa clade. In its latest release, dictyBase has scaled up to host multiple Dictyostelids, including Dictyostelium purpureum [Sucgang, Kuo, Tian, Salerno, Parikh, Feasley, Dalin, Tu, Huang, Barry et al.(2011) (Comparative genomics of the social amoebae Dictyostelium discoideum and Dictyostelium purpureum. Genome Biol., 12, R20)], Dictyostelium fasciculatum and Polysphondylium pallidum [Heidel, Lawal, Felder, Schilde, Helps, Tunggal, Rivero, John, Schleicher, Eichinger et al. (2011) (Phylogeny-wide analysis of social amoeba genomes highlights ancient origins for complex intercellular communication. Genome Res., 21, 1882-1891)]. The new release includes a new Genome Browser with RNAseq expression, interspecies Basic Local Alignment Search Tool alignments and a unified Basic Local Alignment Search Tool search for cross-species comparisons.

Baines, A., et al. (2013). "Functional properties of five Dictyostelium discoideum P2X receptors." J Biol Chem 288(29): 20992-21000.
	The Dictyostelium discoideum genome encodes five proteins that share weak sequence similarity with vertebrate P2X receptors. Unlike vertebrate P2X receptors, these proteins are not expressed on the surface of cells, but populate the tubules and bladders of the contractile vacuole. In this study, we expressed humanized cDNAs of P2XA, P2XB, P2XC, P2XD, and P2XE in human embryonic kidney cells and altered the ionic and proton environment in an attempt to reflect the situation in amoeba. Recording of whole-cell membrane currents showed that four receptors operated as ATP-gated channels (P2XA, P2XB, P2XD, and P2XE). At P2XA receptors, ATP was the only effective agonist of 17 structurally related putative ligands that were tested. Extracellular sodium, compared with potassium, strongly inhibited ATP responses in P2XB, P2XD, and P2XE receptors. Increasing the proton concentration (pH 6.2) accelerated desensitization at P2XA receptors and decreased currents at P2XD receptors, but increased the currents at P2XB and P2XE receptors. Dictyostelium lacking P2XA receptors showed impaired regulatory volume decrease in hypotonic solution. This phenotype was readily rescued by overexpression of P2XA and P2XD receptors, partially rescued by P2XB and P2XE receptors, and not rescued by P2XC receptors. The failure of the nonfunctional receptor P2XC to restore the regulatory volume decrease highlights the importance of ATP activation of P2X receptors for a normal response to hypo-osmotic shock, and the weak rescue by P2XB and P2XE receptors indicates that there is limited functional redundancy among Dictyostelium P2X receptors.

Aubry, L. and G. Klein (2013). "True arrestins and arrestin-fold proteins: a structure-based appraisal." Prog Mol Biol Transl Sci 118: 21-56.
	Arrestin-clan proteins are folded alike, a feature responsible for their recent grouping in a single clan. In human, it includes the well-characterized visual and beta-arrestins, the arrestin domain-containing proteins (ARRDCs), isoforms of the retromer subunit VPS26, and DSCR3, a protein involved in Down syndrome. A new arrestin-fold-predicted protein, RGP1, described here may join the clan. Unicellular organisms like the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae or the amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum harbor VPS26, DSCR3, and RGP1 isoforms as well as arrestin-related trafficking adaptors or ADCs, but true arrestins are missing. Functionally, members of the arrestin clan have generally a scaffolding role in various membrane protein trafficking events. Despite their similar structure, the mechanism of cargo recognition and internalization and the nature of recruited partners differ for the different members. Based on the recent literature, true arrestins (visual and beta-arrestins), ARRDCs, and yeast ARTS are the closest from a functional point of view.

Arafah, S., et al. (2013). "Setting up and monitoring an infection of Dictyostelium discoideum with mycobacteria." Methods Mol Biol 983: 403-417.
	Mycobacterium marinum is the causative agent of fish and amphibian tuberculosis in the wild. It is a genetically close cousin of Mycobacterium tuberculosis, and thereby the infection process remarkably shares many of the hallmarks of M. tuberculosis infection in human, at both the cellular and organism levels. Therefore, M. marinum is used as a model for the study of mycobacterial infection in various host organisms. Recently, the Dictyostelium-M. marinum system has been shown to be a valuable model that recapitulates the main features of the intracellular fate of M. marinum including phagosome maturation arrest, as well as its particular cell-to-cell dissemination mode. We present here a "starter kit" of detailed methods that allows to establish an infection of Dictyostelium with M. marinum and to monitor quantitatively the intracellular bacterial growth.

Annesley, S. J., et al. (2013). "Mitochondrial respiratory complex function and the phenotypic consequences of dysfunction." Methods Mol Biol 983: 345-366.
	Dictyostelium provides a well established model system for the study of mitochondrial biology and disease. Mitochondrial dysfunction in Dictyostelium has been generated by knockout of nonessential nuclear genes encoding mitochondrial proteins, by knockout of targeted mitochondrial genes in a subset of the mitochondria, and by knock down of essential nuclear-encoded mitochondrial proteins. The resulting effects on mitochondrial electron transport and membrane potential can be studied by directly measuring the activities, composition, and assembly or stability of individual mitochondrial respiratory complexes and by using fluorescent probes to assay the mitochondrial membrane potential in vivo. Assays for these are described here. The complexities of mammalian developmental biology have obscured the phenotype-genotype relationships in mitochondrial disease and this has inhibited understanding of the underlying cytopathological mechanisms. By contrast, the Dictyostelium model has revealed a characteristic constellation of downstream phenotypic outcomes that, e.g., point to/show common underlying cytopathological mechanisms in mitochondrial disease. These aberrant phenotypes arise from chronic hyperactivity of the energy-sensing protein kinase AMPK and the assay of the most prominent of them is described here.

Amaroli, A., et al. (2013). "Effects of an extremely low-frequency electromagnetic field on stress factors: a study in Dictyostelium discoideum cells." Eur J Protistol 49(3): 400-405.
	The development of technologies that generate environmental electromagnetic fields (EMFs) has led public opinion and the scientific community to debate upon the existence of possible effects caused by man-made EMFs on the human population and, more generally, on terrestrial ecosystems. Protozoa are known to be excellent bioassay systems in bioelectromagnetic studies because of their features that combine the reliability of in vivo results with the practicality of in vitro ones. For this reason, we examined the possible stressful effects of a 50-Hz, 300-muT extremely low-frequency electromagnetic field (ELF-EMF) on the protozoan Dictyostelium discoideum, which was used as it is included in the eight bioassay alternatives to vertebrate models for the study of human disease by the U.S. National Institutes of Health. Our results show how a 24-h exposure of D. discoideum cells to ELF-EMF can affect the net fission rate, the activity and presence of the pseudocholinesterase as well as the presence of the heat shock protein-70, while no change in the catalase and glutathione peroxidase activities was observed. However, this effect seems to be transient and all the altered parameters returned to their respective control value after a 24-h stay under dummy exposure conditions.

Amaroli, A., et al. (2013). "Effects of the neurotoxic thionophosphate pesticide chlorpyrifos on differentiating alternative models." Chemosphere 90(7): 2115-2122.
	Studies by researchers worldwide have revealed that, even in industrialised nations, people, infants and the aged in particular, are even more exposed to neurotoxic drugs as a consequence of the increased quantity of pesticide residues in food. This phenomenon, as underlined by The Worldwatch Institute (2006), is linked to the exponential increase in the use of these toxic compounds over the last 40 years, up from 0.49 kg per hectare in 1961 to 2 kg in 2004, with the result that these substances are found in the daily diet. Many studies have demonstrated how the assumption of pesticides in the neonatal period and early infancy can alter the development and function of the nervous, immune, endocrine and reproductive apparatuses. Moreover, the unequivocal relationship between brain tumours, infant leukemia and pesticides are well recognised. On the basis of the above information, the effects of the neurotoxic thionophosphate pesticide chlorpyrifos (CPF) have been tested, considering biomarkers of toxicity and toxicity endpoint, on the biological models Dictyostelium discoideum, Paracentrotus lividus, and NTera2 Cells, as they are compatible with the 3Rs strategy (Reduction, Replacement, and Refinement in animal experiments). Our results have revealed that developing organisms are particularly sensitive to the toxic effects of CPF.

Alexander, S., et al. (2013). "Pharmacogenetics of resistance to Cisplatin and other anticancer drugs and the role of sphingolipid metabolism." Methods Mol Biol 983: 185-204.
	Dictyostelium discoideum has proven to be a useful lead genetic system for identifying novel genes and pathways responsible for the regulation of sensitivity to the widely used anticancer drug cisplatin. Resistance to cisplatin is a major factor limiting the efficacy of the drug in treating many types of cancer. Studies using unbiased insertional mutagenesis in D. discoideum have identified the pathway of sphingolipid metabolism as a key regulator in controlling sensitivity to cisplatin. Using the genetic tools including directed homologous recombination and ectopic gene expression available with D. discoideum has shown how pharmacological modulation of this pathway can increase sensitivity to cisplatin, and these results have been extensively translated to, and validated in, human cells. Strategies, experimental conditions, and methods are presented to enable further study of resistance to cisplatin as well as other important drugs.

Agarwal, N. K., et al. (2013). "Rictor encounters RhoGDI2: the second pilot is taking a lead." Small GTPases 4(2): 102-105.
	Rictor's role in cell migration has been first indicated in the original chemotaxis studies in Dictyostelium and more recent studies reported that rictor is required for migration of cancer cells. How rictor promotes cell migration remains poorly characterized. Based on our proteomics study we have identified a novel functional role of rictor in regulation of cell migration. Here, we discuss our recent finding that rictor by suppressing RhoGDI2 maintains activity of the Rac1/cdc42 GTPases and promotes cell migration. Our finding outlines a critical role of rictor in the regulation of RhoGDI2 activity. This study opens new avenues in the investigation of cancer metastasis by analyzing the rictor dependent post-translational modification of RhoGDI2.

Agarwal, N. K., et al. (2013). "Rictor regulates cell migration by suppressing RhoGDI2." Oncogene 32(20): 2521-2526.
	Rictor and its binding partner Sin1 are indispensable components of mTORC2 (mammalian target of rapamycin complex 2). The mTORC2 signaling complex functions as the regulatory kinase of the distinct members of AGC kinase family known to regulate cell proliferation and survival. In the early chemotaxis studies in Dictyostelium, the rictor's ortholog has been identified as a regulator of cell migration. How rictor regulates cell migration is poorly characterized. Here we show that rictor regulates cell migration by controlling a potent inhibitor of Rho proteins known as the Rho-GDP dissociation inhibitor 2 (RhoGDI2). On the basis of on our proteomics study we identified that the rictor-dependent deficiency in cell migration is caused by upregulation of RhoGDI2 leading to a low activity of Rac and Cdc42. We found that a suppression of RhoGDI2 by rictor is not related to the Sin1 or raptor function that excludes a role of mTORC2 or mTORC1 in regulation of RhoGDI2. Our study reveals that rictor by suppressing RhoGDI2 promotes activity of the Rho proteins and cell migration.

Accari, J. E., et al. (2013). "Analysis of mitochondrial gene expression." Methods Mol Biol 983: 325-344.
	Dictyostelium provides a well-established model system for the study of mitochondrial biology and disease. A complete mitochondrial transcription and RNA-processing map has been generated, while the start site for transcription and the responsible RNA polymerase have also been identified, as have the major cotranscriptional cleavage sites that generate the mature mitochondrial RNA molecules. Here we describe the methods deployed to study mitochondrial gene transcription and RNA processing in Dictyostelium.

Zhang, D., et al. (2012). "Skp1 Prolyl 4-Hydroxylase of Dictyostelium Mediates Glycosylation-independent and -dependent Responses to O2 without Affecting Skp1 Stability." J Biol Chem 287(3): 2006-2016.
	Cytoplasmic prolyl 4-hydroxylases (PHDs) have a primary role in O(2) sensing in animals via modification of the transcriptional factor subunit HIFalpha, resulting in its polyubiquitination by the E3(VHL)ubiquitin (Ub) ligase and degradation in the 26 S proteasome. Previously thought to be restricted to animals, a homolog (P4H1) of HIFalpha-type PHDs is expressed in the social amoeba Dictyostelium where it also exhibits characteristics of an O(2) sensor for development. Dictyostelium lacks HIFalpha, and P4H1 modifies a different protein, Skp1, an adaptor of the SCF class of E3-Ub ligases related to the E3(VHL)Ub ligase that targets animal HIFalpha. Normally, the HO-Skp1 product of the P4H1 reaction is capped by a GlcNAc sugar that can be subsequently extended to a pentasaccharide by novel glycosyltransferases. To analyze the role of glycosylation, the Skp1 GlcNAc-transferase locus gnt1 was modified with a missense mutation to block catalysis or a stop codon to truncate the protein. Despite the accumulation of the hydroxylated form of Skp1, Skp1 was not destabilized based on metabolic labeling. However, hydroxylation alone allowed for partial correction of the high O(2) requirement of P4H1-null cells, therefore revealing both glycosylation-independent and glycosylation-dependent roles for hydroxylation. Genetic complementation of the latter function required an enzymatically active form of Gnt1. Because the effect of the gnt1 deficiency depended on P4H1, and Skp1 was the only protein labeled when the GlcNAc-transferase was restored to mutant extracts, Skp1 apparently mediates the cellular functions of both P4H1 and Gnt1. Although Skp1 stability itself is not affected by hydroxylation, its modification may affect the stability of targets of Skp1-dependent Ub ligases.

Yan, J., et al. (2012). "A Gbetagamma Effector, ElmoE, Transduces GPCR Signaling to the Actin Network during Chemotaxis." Dev Cell 22(1): 92-103.
	Activation of G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) leads to the dissociation of heterotrimeric G-proteins into Galpha and Gbetagamma subunits, which go on to regulate various effectors involved in a panoply of cellular responses. During chemotaxis, Gbetagamma subunits regulate actin assembly and migration, but the protein(s) linking Gbetagamma to the actin cytoskeleton remains unknown. Here, we identified a Gbetagamma effector, ElmoE in Dictyostelium, and demonstrated that it is required for GPCR-mediated chemotaxis. Remarkably, ElmoE associates with Gbetagamma and Dock-like proteins to activate the small GTPase Rac, in a GPCR-dependent manner, and also associates with Arp2/3 complex and F-actin. Thus, ElmoE serves as a link between chemoattractant GPCRs, G-proteins and the actin cytoskeleton. The pathway, consisting of GPCR, Gbetagamma, Elmo/Dock, Rac, and Arp2/3, spatially guides the growth of dendritic actin networks in pseudopods of eukaryotic cells during chemotaxis.

Xue, D. M. and L. S. Hou (2012). "Shortening of the cell cycle and developmental interruption in a Dictyostelium discoideum cell line due to RNAi-silenced expression of allantoicase." Genet Mol Res 11(3): 1923-1933.
	The signaling molecules NH(3) (unprotonated volatile ammonia), as well as cyclic adenosine monophosphate and differentiation-inducing factor, play important roles in the multicellular development of the slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum. One of the downstream metabolic products catalyzed by allantoicase (allC) is ammonia. We observed the role of allC by RNAi-mediated manipulation of its expression. The allC gene of D. discoideum was silenced by RNAi. We found significant downregulation of allC mRNA and protein expression levels. Recombinant allC RNAi mutant cell lines had a shortened cell cycle, a reduction in cell size relative to wild-type cells and interrupted development. We conclude that the normal functions of allC include retarding cell division until a specific cell size is reached and coordinating the progression of development.

Xu, Y., et al. (2012). "Role of the Skp1 prolyl-hydroxylation/glycosylation pathway in oxygen dependent submerged development of Dictyostelium." BMC Dev Biol 12: 31.
	BACKGROUND: Oxygen sensing is a near universal signaling modality that, in eukaryotes ranging from protists such as Dictyostelium and Toxoplasma to humans, involves a cytoplasmic prolyl 4-hydroxylase that utilizes oxygen and alpha-ketoglutarate as potentially rate-limiting substrates. A divergence between the animal and protist mechanisms is the enzymatic target: the animal transcriptional factor subunit hypoxia inducible factor-alpha whose hydroxylation results in its poly-ubiquitination and proteasomal degradation, and the protist E3SCF ubiquitin ligase subunit Skp1 whose hydroxylation might control the stability of other proteins. In Dictyostelium, genetic studies show that hydroxylation of Skp1 by PhyA, and subsequent glycosylation of the hydroxyproline, is required for normal oxygen sensing during multicellular development at an air/water interface. Because it has been difficult to detect an effect of hypoxia on Skp1 hydroxylation itself, the role of Skp1 modification was investigated in a submerged model of Dictyostelium development dependent on atmospheric hyperoxia. RESULTS: In static isotropic conditions beneath 70-100% atmospheric oxygen, amoebae formed radially symmetrical cyst-like aggregates consisting of a core of spores and undifferentiated cells surrounded by a cortex of stalk cells. Analysis of mutants showed that cyst formation was inhibited by high Skp1 levels via a hydroxylation-dependent mechanism, and spore differentiation required core glycosylation of Skp1 by a mechanism that could be bypassed by excess Skp1. Failure of spores to differentiate at lower oxygen correlated qualitatively with reduced Skp1 hydroxylation. CONCLUSION: We propose that, in the physiological range, oxygen or downstream metabolic effectors control the timing of developmental progression via activation of newly synthesized Skp1.

Xu, Y., et al. (2012). "The Skp1 protein from Toxoplasma is modified by a cytoplasmic prolyl 4-hydroxylase associated with oxygen sensing in the social amoeba Dictyostelium." J Biol Chem 287(30): 25098-25110.
	In diverse types of organisms, cellular hypoxic responses are mediated by prolyl 4-hydroxylases that use O(2) and alpha-ketoglutarate as substrates to hydroxylate conserved proline residues in target proteins. Whereas in metazoans these enzymes control the stability of the HIFalpha family of transcription factor subunits, the Dictyostelium enzyme (DdPhyA) contributes to O(2) regulation of development by a divergent mechanism involving hydroxylation and subsequent glycosylation of DdSkp1, an adaptor subunit in E3(SCF) ubiquitin ligases. Sequences related to DdPhyA, DdSkp1, and the glycosyltransferases that cap Skp1 hydroxyproline occur also in the genomes of Toxoplasma and other protists, suggesting that this O(2) sensing mechanism may be widespread. Here we show by disruption of the TgphyA locus that this enzyme is required for Skp1 glycosylation in Toxoplasma and that disrupted parasites grow slowly at physiological O(2) levels. Conservation of cellular function was tested by expression of TgPhyA in DdphyA-null cells. Simple gene replacement did not rescue Skp1 glycosylation, whereas overexpression not only corrected Skp1 modification but also restored the O(2) requirement to a level comparable to that of overexpressed DdPhyA. Bacterially expressed TgPhyA protein can prolyl hydroxylate both Toxoplasma and Dictyostelium Skp1s. Kinetic analyses showed that TgPhyA has similar properties to DdPhyA, including a superimposable dependence on the concentration of its co-substrate alpha-ketoglutarate. Remarkably, however, TgPhyA had a significantly higher apparent affinity for O(2). The findings suggest that Skp1 hydroxylation by PhyA is a conserved process among protists and that this biochemical pathway may indirectly sense O(2) by detecting the levels of O(2)-regulated metabolites such as alpha-ketoglutarate.

Xu, X. and T. Jin (2012). "A shortcut from GPCR signaling to Rac-mediated actin cytoskeleton through an ELMO/DOCK complex." Small GTPases 3(3): 183-185.
	Chemotaxis, chemoattractant-guided directional cell migration, plays major roles in human innate immunity and in development of a model organism Dictyostelium discoideum. Human leukocytes and D. disscoideum share remarkable similarities in the molecular mechanisms that control chemotaxis. These cells use G-Protein-Coupled Receptors (GPCRs), such as chemokine receptors, to control a signaling network that carries out chemotactic gradient sensing and directs cell migration. Diverse chemokines bind to their receptors to activate small G protein Rac through an evolutionarily conserved mechanism. Elmo and Dock180 proteins form ELMO/Dock180 complexes functioning as guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) for Rac activation. However, the linkage between GPCR to Elmo/Dock180 for Rac activation that controls F-actin dynamics remained unclear. Recently, we discovered a novel function of an ELMO protein in Dictyostelium discoideum linking GPCR signaling from Gbeta to actin dynamics through regulating Rac activation during chemotaxis.

Xiong, H. and F. Rivero (2012). "Assaying Rho GTPase-dependent processes in Dictyostelium discoideum." Methods Mol Biol 827: 381-392.
	The model organism D. discoideum is well suited to investigate basic questions of molecular and cell biology, particularly those related to the structure, regulation, and dynamics of the cytoskeleton, signal transduction, cell-cell adhesion, and development. D. discoideum makes use of Rho-regulated signaling pathways to reorganize its cytoskeleton during chemotaxis, endocytosis, and cytokinesis. In this organism the Rho family encompasses 20 members, several belonging to the Rac subfamily, but there are no representatives of the Cdc42 and Rho subfamilies. Here we present protocols suitable for monitoring the actin polymerization response and the activation of Rac upon stimulation of aggregation competent cells with the chemoattractant cAMP.

Wessels, D., et al. (2012). "Myosin heavy chain kinases play essential roles in Ca2+, but not cAMP, chemotaxis and the natural aggregation of Dictyostelium discoideum." J Cell Sci 125(Pt 20): 4934-4944.
	Behavioral analyses of the deletion mutants of the four known myosin II heavy chain (Mhc) kinases of Dictyostelium discoideum revealed that all play a minor role in the efficiency of basic cell motility, but none play a role in chemotaxis in a spatial gradient of cAMP generated in vitro. However, the two kinases MhckA and MhckC were essential for chemotaxis in a spatial gradient of Ca(2+), shear-induced directed movement, and reorientation in the front of waves of cAMP during natural aggregation. The phenotypes of the mutants mhckA(-) and mhckC(-) were highly similar to that of the Ca(2+) channel/receptor mutant iplA(-) and the myosin II phosphorylation mutant 3XALA, which produces constitutively unphosphorylated myosin II. These results demonstrate that IplA, MhckA and MhckC play a selective role in chemotaxis in a spatial gradient of Ca(2+), but not cAMP, and suggest that Ca(2+) chemotaxis plays a role in the orientation of cells in the front of cAMP waves during natural aggregation.

von Bulow, J., et al. (2012). "Functional characterization of a novel aquaporin from Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae implies a unique gating mechanism." J Biol Chem 287(10): 7487-7494.
	The social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum is a widely used model organism for studying basic functions of protozoan and metazoan cells, such as osmoregulation and cell motility. There is evidence from other species that cellular water channels, aquaporins (AQP), are central to both processes. Yet, data on D. discoideum AQPs is almost absent. Despite cloning of two putative D. discoideum AQPs, WacA, and AqpA, water permeability has not been shown. Further, WacA and AqpA are expressed at the late multicellular stage and in spores but not in amoebae. We cloned a novel AQP, AqpB, from amoeboidal D. discoideum cells. Wild-type AqpB was impermeable to water, glycerol, and urea when expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes. Neither stepwise truncation of the N terminus nor selected point mutations activated the water channel. However, mutational truncation by 12 amino acids of an extraordinary long intracellular loop induced water permeability of AqpB, hinting at a novel gating mechanism. This AqpB mutant was inhibited by mercuric chloride, confirming the presence of a cysteine residue in the selectivity filter as predicted by our structure model. We detected AqpB by Western blot analysis in a glycosylated and a non-glycosylated form throughout all developmental stages. When expressed in D. discoideum amoebae, AqpB-GFP fusion constructs localized to vacuolar structures, to the plasma membrane, and to lamellipodia-like membrane protrusions. We conclude that the localization pattern in conjunction with channel gating may be indicative of AqpB functions in osmoregulation as well as cell motility of D. discoideum.

von Buelow, J., et al. (2012). "Functional characterization of a novel aquaporin from Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae implies a unique gating mechanism." J Biol Chem.
	The social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum is a widely used model organism for studying basic functions of protozoan and metazoan cells, such as osmoregulation and cell motility. There is evidence from other species that cellular water channels, aquaporins (AQP ), are central to both processes. Yet, data on D. discoideum AQPs is almost absent. Despite cloning of two putative D. discoideum AQPs, WacA and AqpA, water permeability has not been shown. Further, WacA and AqpA are expressed at the late multicellular stage and in spores but not in amoebae. We cloned a novel AQP, AqpB, from amoeboidal D. discoideum cells. Wildtype AqpB was impermeable to water, glycerol, and urea when expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes. Neither stepwise truncation of the N-terminus nor selected point mutations activated the water channel. However, mutational truncation by 12 amino acids of an extraordinary long intracellular loop induced water permeability of AqpB hinting at a novel gating mechanism. This AqpB mutant was inhibited by mercuric chloride confirming the presence of a cysteine residue in the selectivity filter as predicted by our structure model. We detected AqpB by Western blot in a glycosylated and a non-glycosylated form throughout all developmental stages. When expressed in D. discoideum amoebae, AqpB-GFP fusion constructs localized to vacuolar structures, to the plasma membrane, and to lamellipodia-like membrane protrusions. We conclude, that the localization pattern in conjunction with channel gating may be indicative of AqpB functions in osmoregulation as well as cell motility of D. discoideum.

Vilches, S., et al. (2012). "The Aeromonas dsbA mutation decreased their virulence by triggering type III secretion system but not flagella production." Microb Pathog 52(2): 130-139.
	Pathogenesis of Aeromonas species have been reported to be associated with virulence factors such as lipopolysaccharides (LPS), bacterial toxins, bacterial secretion systems, flagella, and other surface molecules. Dsb (Disulfide bond) proteins play an important role in catalyzing disulfide bond formation in proteins within the periplasmic space. An A. hydrophila dsbA mutant with attenuated virulence using Dictyostelium amoebae as an alternative host model was identified. The attenuated virulence was tested in other animal models (by intraperitoneal injection in fish and mice) and was correlated with the presence of a defective type III secretion system for the first time in non enteric bacteria. The dsbA mutation was shown in several enteric bacteria to involve the outer membrane secretin. The defect in Aeromonas also seems to involve the outer membrane secretin homologue named AscC. However, unlike what happen in Escherichia coli, no changes in motility or flagella expression were observed for A. hydrophila dsbA mutants. The loss of E. coli motility caused by deletion of dsbA is likely due to defective disulfide bond formation in FlgI, a component of the flagella. No disulfide bond formation in FlgI homologues in Aeromonas flagella biogenesis, either polar or lateral, could be expected according to their amino acid residues sequences.

Veltman, D. M., et al. (2012). "SCAR knockouts in Dictyostelium: WASP assumes SCAR's position and upstream regulators in pseudopods." J Cell Biol 198(4): 501-508.
	Under normal conditions, the Arp2/3 complex activator SCAR/WAVE controls actin polymerization in pseudopods, whereas Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (WASP) assembles actin at clathrin-coated pits. We show that, unexpectedly, Dictyostelium discoideum SCAR knockouts could still spread, migrate, and chemotax using pseudopods driven by the Arp2/3 complex. In the absence of SCAR, some WASP relocated from the coated pits to the leading edge, where it behaved with similar dynamics to normal SCAR, forming split pseudopods and traveling waves. Pseudopods colocalized with active Rac, whether driven by WASP or SCAR, though Rac was activated to a higher level in SCAR mutants. Members of the SCAR regulatory complex, in particular PIR121, were not required for WASP regulation. We thus show that WASP is able to respond to all core upstream signals and that regulators coupled through the other members of SCAR's regulatory complex are not essential for pseudopod formation. We conclude that WASP and SCAR can regulate pseudopod actin using similar mechanisms.

Van Auken, K., et al. (2012). "Text mining in the biocuration workflow: applications for literature curation at WormBase, dictyBase and TAIR." Database (Oxford) 2012: bas040.
	WormBase, dictyBase and The Arabidopsis Information Resource (TAIR) are model organism databases containing information about Caenorhabditis elegans and other nematodes, the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum and related Dictyostelids and the flowering plant Arabidopsis thaliana, respectively. Each database curates multiple data types from the primary research literature. In this article, we describe the curation workflow at WormBase, with particular emphasis on our use of text-mining tools (BioCreative 2012, Workshop Track II). We then describe the application of a specific component of that workflow, Textpresso for Cellular Component Curation (CCC), to Gene Ontology (GO) curation at dictyBase and TAIR (BioCreative 2012, Workshop Track III). We find that, with organism-specific modifications, Textpresso can be used by dictyBase and TAIR to annotate gene productions to GO's Cellular Component (CC) ontology.

Ura, S., et al. (2012). "Pseudopod growth and evolution during cell movement is controlled through SCAR/WAVE dephosphorylation." Curr Biol 22(7): 553-561.
	BACKGROUND: SCAR/WAVE is a principal regulator of pseudopod growth in crawling cells. It exists in a stable pentameric complex, which is regulated at multiple levels that are only beginning to be understood. SCAR/WAVE is phosphorylated at multiple sites, but how this affects its biological activity is unclear. Here we show that dephosphorylation of Dictyostelium SCAR controls normal pseudopod dynamics. RESULTS: We demonstrate that the C-terminal acidic domain of most Dictyostelium SCAR is basally phosphorylated at four serine residues. A small amount of singly phosphorylated SCAR is also found. SCAR phosphorylation site mutants cannot replace SCAR's role in the pseudopod cycle, though they rescue cell size and growth. Unphosphorylatable SCAR is hyperactive-excessive recruitment to the front results in large pseudopods that fail to bifurcate because they continually grow forward. Conversely, phosphomimetic SCAR is weakly active, causing frequent small, disorganized pseudopods. Even in its regulatory complex, SCAR is normally held inactive by an interaction between the phosphorylated acidic and basic domains. Loss of basic residues complementary to the acidic phosphosites yields a hyperactive protein similar to unphosphorylatable SCAR. CONCLUSIONS: Regulated dephosphorylation of a fraction of the cellular SCAR pool is a key step in SCAR activation during pseudopod growth. Phosphorylation increases autoinhibition of the intact complex. Dephosphorylation weakens this interaction and facilitates SCAR activation but also destabilizes the protein. We show that SCAR is specifically dephosphorylated in pseudopods, increasing activation by Rac and lipids and supporting positive feedback of pseudopod growth.

Unterweger, D., et al. (2012). "Constitutive type VI secretion system expression gives Vibrio cholerae intra- and interspecific competitive advantages." PLoS One 7(10): e48320.
	The type VI secretion system (T6SS) mediates protein translocation across the cell membrane of Gram-negative bacteria, including Vibrio cholerae - the causative agent of cholera. All V. cholerae strains examined to date harbor gene clusters encoding a T6SS. Structural similarity and sequence homology between components of the T6SS and the T4 bacteriophage cell-puncturing device suggest that the T6SS functions as a contractile molecular syringe to inject effector molecules into prokaryotic and eukaryotic target cells. Regulation of the T6SS is critical. A subset of V. cholerae strains, including the clinical O37 serogroup strain V52, express T6SS constitutively. In contrast, pandemic strains impose tight control that can be genetically disrupted: mutations in the quorum sensing gene luxO and the newly described regulator gene tsrA lead to constitutive T6SS expression in the El Tor strain C6706. In this report, we examined environmental V. cholerae isolates from the Rio Grande with regard to T6SS regulation. Rough V. cholerae lacking O-antigen carried a nonsense mutation in the gene encoding the global T6SS regulator VasH and did not display virulent behavior towards Escherichia coli and other environmental bacteria. In contrast, smooth V. cholerae strains engaged constitutively in type VI-mediated secretion and displayed virulence towards prokaryotes (E. coli and other environmental bacteria) and a eukaryote (the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum). Furthermore, smooth V. cholerae strains were able to outcompete each other in a T6SS-dependent manner. The work presented here suggests that constitutive T6SS expression provides V. cholerae with an advantage in intraspecific and interspecific competition.

Tsujioka, M., et al. (2012). "Talin couples the actomyosin cortex to the plasma membrane during rear retraction and cytokinesis." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 109(32): 12992-12997.
	Contraction of the cortical actin cytoskeleton underlies both rear retraction in directed cell migration and cytokinesis. Here, we show that talin, a central component of focal adhesions, has a major role in these processes. We found that Dictyostelium talin A colocalized with myosin II in the rear of migrating cells and the cleavage furrow. During directed cell migration, talin A-null cells displayed a long thin tail devoid of actin filaments, whereas additional depletion of SibA, a transmembrane adhesion molecule that binds to talin A, reverted this phenotype, suggesting a requirement of the link between actomyosin and SibA by talin A for rear retraction. Disruptions of talin A also resulted in detachment of the actomyosin contractile ring from the cell membrane and concomitant regression of the cleavage furrow under certain conditions. The C-terminal actin-binding domain (ABD) of talin A exhibited a localization pattern identical to that of full-length talin A. The N-terminal FERM domain was found to bind phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate [PtdIns(4,5)P2] and phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate [PtdIns(3,4,5)P3] in vitro. In vivo, however, PtdIns(4,5)P2, which is known to activate talin, is believed to be enriched in the rear of migrating cells and the cleavage furrow in Dictyostelium. From these results, we propose that talin A activated by PtdIns(4,5)P2 in the cell posterior or cleavage furrow links actomyosin cytoskeleton to adhesion molecules or other membrane proteins, and that the force is transmitted through these links to retract the tail during cell migration or to cause efficient ingression of the equator during cytokinesis.

Trokter, M., et al. (2012). "Reconstitution of the human cytoplasmic dynein complex." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 109(51): 20895-20900.
	Cytoplasmic dynein is the major motor protein responsible for microtubule minus-end-directed movements in most eukaryotic cells. It transports a variety of cargoes and has numerous functions during spindle assembly and chromosome segregation. It is a large complex of about 1.4 MDa composed of six different subunits, interacting with a multitude of different partners. Most biochemical studies have been performed either with the native mammalian cytoplasmic dynein complex purified from tissue or, more recently, with recombinant dynein fragments from budding yeast and Dictyostelium. Hardly any information exists about the properties of human dynein. Moreover, experiments with an entire human dynein complex prepared from recombinant subunits with a well-defined composition are lacking. Here, we reconstitute a complete cytoplasmic dynein complex using recombinant human subunits and characterize its biochemical and motile properties. Using analytical gel filtration, sedimentation-velocity ultracentrifugation, and negative-stain electron microscopy, we demonstrate that the smaller subunits of the complex have an important structural function for complex integrity. Fluorescence microscopy experiments reveal that while engaged in collective microtubule transport, the recombinant human cytoplasmic dynein complex is an active, microtubule minus-end-directed motor, as expected. However, in contrast to recombinant dynein of nonmetazoans, individual reconstituted human dynein complexes did not show robust processive motility, suggesting a more intricate mechanism of processivity regulation for the human dynein complex. In the future, the comparison of reconstituted dynein complexes from different species promises to provide molecular insight into the mechanisms regulating the various functions of these large molecular machines.

Thomas Sosa, R., et al. (2012). "A Single beta Adaptin Contributes to AP1 and AP2 Complexes and Clathrin Function in Dictyostelium." Traffic 13(2): 305-316.
	The assembly of clathrin-coated vesicles is important for numerous cellular processes, including nutrient uptake and membrane organization. Important contributors to clathrin assembly are four tetrameric assembly proteins, also called adaptor proteins (APs), each of which contains a beta subunit. We identified a single beta subunit, named beta1/2, that contributes to both the AP1 and AP2 complexes of Dictyostelium. Disruption of the gene encoding beta1/2 resulted in severe defects in growth, cytokinesis and development. Additionally, cells lacking beta1/2 displayed profound osmoregulatory defects including the absence of contractile vacuoles and mislocalization of contractile vacuole markers. The phenotypes of beta1/2 null cells were most similar to previously described phenotypes of clathrin and AP1 mutants, supporting a particularly important contribution of AP1 to clathrin pathways in Dictyostelium cells. The absence of beta1/2 in cells led to significant reductions in the protein amounts of the medium-sized subunits of the AP1 and AP2 complexes, establishing a role for the beta subunit in the stability of the medium subunits. Dictyostelium beta1/2 could resemble a common ancestor of the more specialized beta1 and beta2 subunits of the vertebrate AP complexes. Our results support the essential contribution of a single beta subunit to the stability and function of AP1 and AP2 in a simple eukaryote.

Thewes, S., et al. (2012). "The calcineurin dependent transcription factor TacA is involved in development and the stress response of Dictyostelium discoideum." Eur J Cell Biol 91(10): 789-799.
	Calcineurin is an important signalling protein in a plethora of Ca(2+)-regulated cellular processes. In contrast to what is known about the function of calcineurin in various organisms, information on calcineurin substrates is still limited. Here we describe the identification and characterisation of the transcription factor activated by calcineurin (TacA) in the model organism Dictyostelium discoideum. TacA is a putative zinc-finger transcription factor orthologue of yeast Crz1. In resting unstimulated cells the protein is located in the cytosol and translocates to the nucleus in a calcineurin-dependent manner after Ca(2+)-stimulation. Nuclear export of TacA is partially dependent on GskA, the Dictyostelium orthologue of mammalian GSK3. The expression of tacA is developmentally regulated with its kinetics roughly paralleling calcineurin regulation. Silencing of tacA via RNAi leads to developmental defects and dysregulation of developmentally regulated and Ca(2+)-regulated marker genes. Additionally, TacA is involved in the stress response of D. discoideum during development in a separate pathway to the well-known stress response in Dictyostelium via STATc. Finally we provide evidence that TacA is not only an orthologue of yeast Crz1 but also functionally related to mammalian NFAT.

Tatischeff, I., et al. (2012). "Fast characterisation of cell-derived extracellular vesicles by nanoparticles tracking analysis, cryo-electron microscopy, and Raman tweezers microspectroscopy." J Extracell Vesicles 1.
	The joint use of 3 complementary techniques, namely, nanoparticle tracking analysis (NTA), cryo-electron microscopy (Cryo-EM) and Raman tweezers microspectroscopy (RTM), is proposed for a rapid characterisation of extracellular vesicles (EVs) of various origins. NTA is valuable for studying the size distribution and concentration, Cryo-EM is outstanding for the morphological characterisation, including observation of vesicle heterogeneity, while RTM provides the global chemical composition without using any exogenous label. The capabilities of this approach are evaluated on the example of cell-derived vesicles of Dictyostelium discoideum, a convenient general model for eukaryotic EVs. At least 2 separate species differing in chemical composition (relative amounts of DNA, lipids and proteins, presence of carotenoids) were found for each of the 2 physiological states of this non-pathogenic microorganism, that is, cell growth and starvation-induced aggregation. These findings demonstrate the specific potency of RTM. In addition, the first Raman spectra of human urinary exosomes are reported, presumably constituting the primary step towards Raman characterisation of EVs for the purpose of human diseases diagnoses.

Sultana, H., et al. (2012). "Ectopic expression of Cyclase associated protein CAP restores the streaming and aggregation defects of Adenylyl Cyclase A deficient Dictyostelium discoideum cells." BMC Dev Biol 12(1): 3.
	ABSTRACT: BACKGROUND: Cell adhesion, an integral part of D. discoideum development, is important for morphogenesis and regulated gene expression in the multicellular context and is required to trigger cell-differentiation. G-protein linked adenylyl cyclase pathways are crucially involved and a mutant lacking the aggregation specific adenylyl cyclase ACA does not undergo multicellular development. RESULTS: Here, we have investigated the role of cyclase-associated protein (CAP), an important regulator of cell polarity and F-actin/G-actin ratio in the aca mutant. We show that ectopic expression of GFP-CAP improves cell polarization, streaming and aggregation in aca cells, but it fails to completely restore development. Our studies indicate a requirement of CAP in the ACA dependent signal transduction for progression of the development of unicellular amoebae into multicellular structures. The reduced expression of the cell adhesion molecule DdCAD1 together with csA is responsible for the defects in aca cells to initiate multicellular development. Early development was restored by the expression of GFP-CAP that enhanced the DdCAD1 transcript levels and to a lesser extent the csA mRNA levels. CONCLUSIONS: Collectively, our data shows a novel role of CAP in regulating cell adhesion mechanisms during development that might be envisioned to unravel the functions of mammalian CAP during animal embryogenesis.

Suire, S., et al. (2012). "GPCR activation of Ras and PI3Kc in neutrophils depends on PLCb2/b3 and the RasGEF RasGRP4." Embo j 31(14): 3118-3129.
	The molecular mechanisms by which receptors regulate the Ras Binding Domains of the PIP3-generating, class I PI3Ks remain poorly understood, despite their importance in a range of biological settings, including tumorigenesis, activation of neutrophils by pro-inflammatory mediators, chemotaxis of Dictyostelium and cell growth in Drosophila. We provide evidence that G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) can stimulate PLCb2/b3 and diacylglycerol- dependent activation of the RasGEF, RasGRP4 in neutrophils. The genetic loss of RasGRP4 phenocopies knock-in of a Ras-insensitive version of PI3Kc in its effects on PI3Kc-dependent PIP3 accumulation, PKB activation, chemokinesis and reactive oxygen species (ROS) formation. These results establish a new mechanism by which GPCRs can stimulate Ras, and the broadly important principle that PLCs can control activation of class I PI3Ks.

Strasser, K., et al. (2012). "A retinoblastoma orthologue is a major regulator of S-phase, mitotic, and developmental gene expression in Dictyostelium." PLoS One 7(6): e39914.
	BACKGROUND: The retinoblastoma tumour suppressor, Rb, has two major functions. First, it represses genes whose products are required for S-phase entry and progression thus stabilizing cells in G1. Second, Rb interacts with factors that induce cell-cycle exit and terminal differentiation. Dictyostelium lacks a G1 phase in its cell cycle but it has a retinoblastoma orthologue, rblA. METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Using microarray analysis and mRNA-Seq transcriptional profiling, we show that RblA strongly represses genes whose products are involved in S phase and mitosis. Both S-phase and mitotic genes are upregulated at a single point in late G2 and again in mid-development, near the time when cell cycling is reactivated. RblA also activates a set of genes unique to slime moulds that function in terminal differentiation. CONCLUSIONS: Like its mammalian counterpart Dictyostelium, RblA plays a dual role, regulating cell-cycle progression and transcriptional events leading to terminal differentiation. In the absence of a G1 phase, however, RblA functions in late G2 controlling the expression of both S-phase and mitotic genes.

Sprio, A. E., et al. (2012). "Differentiation-inducing factor-1 enhances 5-fluorouracil action on oral cancer cells inhibiting E2F1 and thymidylate synthase mRNAs accumulation." Cancer Chemother Pharmacol 69(4): 983-989.
	PURPOSE: Differentiation-inducing factor-1 (DIF-1) is a morphogen originally identified in the amoebozoan Dictyostelium discoideum. In mammalian cells, it has been shown to activate GSK3beta, which in turn is expected to reduce levels of beta-catenin and cyclin D1, thus mediating DIF-1 antiproliferative properties. Since this could alter the expression and activity of E2F1 transcription factor and consequently those of the prognostic marker/chemotherapy target thymidylate synthase (TS), we evaluated (1) whether DIF-1 could effectively regulate these genes, (2) whether it could interfere with cell viability, and (3) whether DIF-1 activity could enhance the efficacy of the TS inhibitor 5-fluorouracil (5-FU). METHODS: We investigated the effects of DIF-1 in continuous human cell lines derived from two oral tumor histotypes (corresponding to an adenosquamous and a squamous carcinoma) and a gingival epithelium. We evaluated mRNA accumulation by means of quantitative real-time PCR and efficacy of drugs on cell viability by means of MTT assay. RESULTS: DIF-1 inhibited the accumulation of E2F1 mRNA and reduces TS mRNA levels in tumor cell lines, but did not alter mRNA levels in the gingival counterpart. As a result, it inhibited proliferation preferentially of tumor cell in time- and concentration-dependent manner. Moreover, it enhanced cytotoxic effects of 5-FU only in tumor cell, whereas reduced them in the gingival counterpart. CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest a tumor-specific action of DIF-1 on oral carcinoma cells. Thus, interfering with E2F1 and TS transcription, DIF-1 potentiates TS enzymatic inhibitors.

Sperandio, D., et al. (2012). "Virulence of the Pseudomonas fluorescens clinical strain MFN1032 towards Dictyostelium discoideum and macrophages in relation with type III secretion system." BMC Microbiol 12: 223.
	BACKGROUND: Pseudomonas fluorescens biovar I MFN1032 is a clinical isolate able to grow at 37 degrees C. This strain displays secretion-mediated hemolytic activity involving phospholipase C and cyclolipopeptides, and a cell-associated hemolytic activity distinct from the secreted hemolytic activity. Cell-associated hemolysis is independent of biosurfactant production and remains in a gacA mutant. Disruption of the hrpU-like operon (the basal part of type III secretion system from rhizospheric strains) suppresses this activity. We hypothesized that this phenotype could reflect evolution of an ancestral mechanism involved in the survival of this species in its natural niche. In this study, we evaluated the hrpU-like operon's contribution to other virulence mechanisms using a panel of Pseudomonas strains from various sources. RESULTS: We found that MFN1032 inhibited the growth of the amoebae Dictyostelium discoideum and that this inhibition involved the hrpU-like operon and was absent in a gacA mutant. MFN1032 was capable of causing macrophage lysis, if the hrpU-like operon was intact, and this cytotoxicity remained in a gacA mutant. Cell-associated hemolytic activity and macrophage necrosis were found in other P. fluorescens clinical isolates, but not in biocontrol P. fluorescens strains harbouring hrpU-like operon. The growth of Dictyostelium discoideum was inhibited to a different extent by P. fluorescens strains without correlation between this inhibition and hrpU-like operon sequences. CONCLUSIONS: In P. fluorescens MFN1032, the basal part of type III secretion system plays a role in D. discoideum growth inhibition and macrophage necrosis. The inhibition of D. discoideum growth is dependent on the GacS/GacA system, while cell-associated hemolytic activity and macrophage lysis are not. Virulence against eukaryotic cells based on the hrpU-like operon may be more than just a stochastic evolution of a conserved system dedicated to survival in competition with natural predators such as amoebae. It may also mean that there are some important modifications of other type III secretion system components, which remain unknown. Cell-associated hemolysis might be a good indicator of the virulence of Pseudomonas fluorescens strain.

Skakun, V. V., et al. (2012). "Simultaneous diffusion and brightness measurements and brightness profile visualization from single fluorescence fluctuation traces of GFP in living cells." Eur Biophys J 41(12): 1055-1064.
	Fluorescence correlation spectroscopy (FCS) and photon-counting histogram (PCH) analysis use the same experimental fluorescence intensity fluctuations, but each analytical method focuses on a different property of the signal. The time-dependent decay of the correlation of fluorescence fluctuations is measured in FCS yielding, for instance, molecular diffusion coefficients. The amplitude distribution of these fluctuations is calculated by PCH analysis yielding information about the molecular brightness of fluorescent species. Analysis of both FCS and PCH results in the molecular concentration of the sample. Using a previously described global analysis procedure we report here precise, simultaneous measurements of diffusion constants and brightness values from single fluorescence fluctuation traces of green-fluorescent protein (GFP, S65T) in the cytoplasm of Dictyostelium cells. The use of a polynomial profile in PCH analysis, describing the detected three-dimensional shape of the confocal volume, enabled us to obtain well fitting results for GFP in cells. We could visualize the polynomial profile and show its deviation from a Gaussian profile.

Sivaramakrishnan, V. and S. J. Fountain (2012). "A mechanism of intracellular P2X receptor activation." J Biol Chem 287(34): 28315-28326.
	P2X receptors (P2XRs) are ATP-activated calcium-permeable ligand-gated ion channels traditionally viewed as sensors of extracellular ATP during diverse physiological processes including pain, inflammation, and taste. However, in addition to a cell surface residency P2XRs also populate the membranes of intracellular compartments, including mammalian lysosomes, phagosomes, and the contractile vacuole (CV) of the amoeba Dictyostelium. The function of intracellular P2XRs is unclear and represents a major gap in our understanding of ATP signaling. Here, we exploit the genetic versatility of Dictyostelium to investigate the effects of physiological concentrations of ATP on calcium signaling in isolated CVs. Within the CV, an acidic calcium store, P2XRs are orientated to sense luminal ATP. Application of ATP to isolated vacuoles leads to luminal translocation of ATP and release of calcium. Mechanisms of luminal ATP translocation and ATP-evoked calcium release share common pharmacology, suggesting that they are linked processes. The ability of ATP to mobilize stored calcium is reduced in vacuoles isolated from P2X(A)R knock-out amoeba and ablated in cells devoid of P2XRs. Pharmacological inhibition of luminal ATP translocation or depletion of CV calcium attenuates CV function in vivo, manifesting as a loss of regulatory cell volume decrease following osmotic swelling. We propose that intracellular P2XRs regulate vacuole activity by acting as calcium release channels, activated by translocation of ATP into the vacuole lumen.

Singleton, C. K., et al. (2012). "eIF2alpha kinases regulate development through the BzpR transcription factor in Dictyostelium discoideum." PLoS One 7(3): e32500.
	BACKGROUND: A major mechanism of translational regulation in response to a variety of stresses is mediated by phosphorylation of eIF2alpha to reduce delivery of initiator tRNAs to scanning ribosomes. For some mRNAs, often encoding a bZIP transcription factor, eIF2alpha phosphorylation leads to enhanced translation due to delayed reinitiation at upstream open reading frames. Dictyostelium cells possess at least three eIF2alpha kinases that regulate various portions of the starvation-induced developmental program. Cells possessing an eIF2alpha that cannot be phosphorylated (BS167) show abnormalities in growth and development. We sought to identify a bZIP protein in Dictyostelium whose production is controlled by the eIF2alpha regulatory system. PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Cells disrupted in the bzpR gene had similar developmental defects as BS167 cells, including small entities, stalk defects, and reduced spore viability. beta-galactosidase production was used to examine translation from mRNA containing the bzpR 5' UTR. While protein production was readily apparent and regulated temporally and spatially in wild type cells, essentially no beta-galactosidase was produced in developing BS167 cells even though the lacZ mRNA levels were the same as those in wild type cells. Also, no protein production was observed in strains lacking IfkA or IfkB eIF2alpha kinases. GFP fusions, with appropriate internal controls, were used to directly demonstrate that the bzpR 5' UTR, possessing 7 uORFs, suppressed translation by 12 fold. Suppression occurred even when all but one uORF was deleted, and translational suppression was removed when the ATG of the single uORF was mutated. CONCLUSIONS: The findings indicate that BzpR regulates aspects of the development program in Dictyostelium, serving as a downstream effector of eIF2alpha phosphorylation. Its production is temporally and spatially regulated by eIF2alpha phosphorylation by IfkA and IfkB and through the use of uORFs within the bzpR 5' UTR.

Shu, S., et al. (2012). "Actin cross-linking proteins cortexillin I and II are required for cAMP signaling during Dictyostelium chemotaxis and development." Mol Biol Cell 23(2): 390-400.
	Starvation induces Dictyostelium amoebae to secrete cAMP, toward which other amoebae stream, forming multicellular mounds that differentiate and develop into fruiting bodies containing spores. We find that the double deletion of cortexillin (ctx) I and II alters the actin cytoskeleton and substantially inhibits all molecular responses to extracellular cAMP. Synthesis of cAMP receptor and adenylyl cyclase A (ACA) is inhibited, and activation of ACA, RasC, and RasG, phosphorylation of extracellular signal regulated kinase 2, activation of TORC2, and stimulation of actin polymerization and myosin assembly are greatly reduced. As a consequence, cell streaming and development are completely blocked. Expression of ACA-yellow fluorescent protein in the ctxI/ctxII-null cells significantly rescues the wild-type phenotype, indicating that the primary chemotaxis and development defect is the inhibition of ACA synthesis and cAMP production. These results demonstrate the critical importance of a properly organized actin cytoskeleton for cAMP-signaling pathways, chemotaxis, and development in Dictyostelium.

Schimmel, B. G., et al. (2012). "Mitochondrial fission and fusion in Dictyostelium discoideum: a search for proteins involved in membrane dynamics." BMC Res Notes 5: 505.
	BACKGROUND: Mitochondrial morphology is maintained by two distinct membrane events -fission and fusion. Altering these conserved processes can disrupt mitochondrial morphology and distribution, thereby disrupting the organelle's functionality and impeding cellular function. In higher eukaryotes, these processes are mediated by a family of dynamin-related proteins (DRP's). In the lower eukaryotes, for instance Dictyostelium discoideum, mitochondrial fission and fusion have been implicated but not yet established. To understand the overall mechanism of these dynamics across organisms, we developed an assay to identify fission and fusion events in Dictyostelium and to assess the involvement of the mitochondrial proteins, MidA, CluA, and two DRP's, DymA and DymB. FINDINGS: Using laser scanning confocal microscopy we show, for the first time, that lower eukaryotes mediate mitochondrial fission and fusion. In Dictyostelium, these processes are balanced, occurring approximately 1 event/minute. Quantification of the rates in midA-, cluA-, dymA-, or dymB- strains established that MidA appears to play an indirect role in the regulation of fission and fusion, while the DRP's are not essential for these processes. Rates of fission and fusion were significantly reduced in cluA-cells, indicating that CluA is necessary for maintaining both fission and fusion. CONCLUSIONS: We have successfully demonstrated that Dictyostelium mitochondria undergo the dynamic processes of fission and fusion. The classical mediators of membrane dynamics - the DRP's - are not necessary for these dynamics, whereas CluA is necessary for both processes. This work contributes to our overall understanding of mitochondrial dynamics and ultimately will provide additional insight into mitochondrial disease.

Scala, C., et al. (2012). "Amino acid repeats cause extraordinary coding sequence variation in the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum." PLoS One 7(9): e46150.
	Protein sequences are normally the most conserved elements of genomes owing to purifying selection to maintain their functions. We document an extraordinary amount of within-species protein sequence variation in the model eukaryote Dictyostelium discoideum stemming from triplet DNA repeats coding for long strings of single amino acids. D. discoideum has a very large number of such strings, many of which are polyglutamine repeats, the same sequence that causes various human neurological disorders in humans, like Huntington's disease. We show here that D. discoideum coding repeat loci are highly variable among individuals, making D. discoideum a candidate for the most variable proteome. The coding repeat loci are not significantly less variable than similar non-coding triplet repeats. This pattern is consistent with these amino-acid repeats being largely non-functional sequences evolving primarily by mutation and drift.

Saxer, G., et al. (2012). "Whole genome sequencing of mutation accumulation lines reveals a low mutation rate in the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum." PLoS One 7(10): e46759.
	Spontaneous mutations play a central role in evolution. Despite their importance, mutation rates are some of the most elusive parameters to measure in evolutionary biology. The combination of mutation accumulation (MA) experiments and whole-genome sequencing now makes it possible to estimate mutation rates by directly observing new mutations at the molecular level across the whole genome. We performed an MA experiment with the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum and sequenced the genomes of three randomly chosen lines using high-throughput sequencing to estimate the spontaneous mutation rate in this model organism. The mitochondrial mutation rate of 6.76x10(-9), with a Poisson confidence interval of 4.1x10(-9) - 9.5x10(-9), per nucleotide per generation is slightly lower than estimates for other taxa. The mutation rate estimate for the nuclear DNA of 2.9x10(-11), with a Poisson confidence interval ranging from 7.4x10(-13) to 1.6x10(-10), is the lowest reported for any eukaryote. These results are consistent with low microsatellite mutation rates previously observed in D. discoideum and low levels of genetic variation observed in wild D. discoideum populations. In addition, D. discoideum has been shown to be quite resistant to DNA damage, which suggests an efficient DNA-repair mechanism that could be an adaptation to life in soil and frequent exposure to intracellular and extracellular mutagenic compounds. The social aspect of the life cycle of D. discoideum and a large portion of the genome under relaxed selection during vegetative growth could also select for a low mutation rate. This hypothesis is supported by a significantly lower mutation rate per cell division in multicellular eukaryotes compared with unicellular eukaryotes.

Sakurai, S. and S. Nagano (2012). "A molecular network underlying spontaneous cAMP oscillation and synchronization in Dictyostelium." J Theor Biol 307: 37-41.
	We propose a molecular network, incorporating both adaptation and phosphorylation, to account for the spontaneous cAMP oscillation of Dictyostelium discoideum. We have modified the scheme previously proposed by Loomis and his collaborators so as to include adaptation by the cAMP receptor and such that extracellular cAMP is formed by the secreted intracellular cAMP instead of being directly produced by adenylyl cyclase. Furthermore, our scheme provides better robustness, and can be applied to spontaneous cAMP production by a cluster of cells.

Rupprecht, P., et al. (2012). "A tapered channel microfluidic device for comprehensive cell adhesion analysis, using measurements of detachment kinetics and shear stress-dependent motion." Biomicrofluidics 6(1): 14107-1410712.
	We have developed a method for studying cellular adhesion by using a custom-designed microfluidic device with parallel non-connected tapered channels. The design enables investigation of cellular responses to a large range of shear stress (ratio of 25) with a single input flow-rate. For each shear stress, a large number of cells are analyzed (500-1500 cells), providing statistically relevant data within a single experiment. Besides adhesion strength measurements, the microsystem presented in this paper enables in-depth analysis of cell detachment kinetics by real-time videomicroscopy. It offers the possibility to analyze adhesion-associated processes, such as migration or cell shape change, within the same experiment. To show the versatility of our device, we examined quantitatively cell adhesion by analyzing kinetics, adhesive strength and migration behaviour or cell shape modifications of the unicellular model cell organism Dictyostelium discoideum at 21 degrees C and of the human breast cancer cell line MDA-MB-231 at 37 degrees C. For both cell types, we found that the threshold stresses, which are necessary to detach the cells, follow lognormal distributions, and that the detachment process follows first order kinetics. In addition, for particular conditions' cells are found to exhibit similar adhesion threshold stresses, but very different detachment kinetics, revealing the importance of dynamics analysis to fully describe cell adhesion. With its rapid implementation and potential for parallel sample processing, such microsystem offers a highly controllable platform for exploring cell adhesion characteristics in a large set of environmental conditions and cell types, and could have wide applications across cell biology, tissue engineering, and cell screening.

Rosel, D., et al. (2012). "TOR complex 2 (TORC2) in Dictyostelium suppresses phagocytic nutrient capture independently of TORC1-mediated nutrient sensing." J Cell Sci 125(Pt 1): 37-48.
	The TOR protein kinase functions in two distinct complexes, TOR complex 1 (TORC1) and 2 (TORC2). TORC1 is required for growth in response to growth factors, nutrients and the cellular energy state; TORC2 regulates AKT signaling, which can modulate cytoskeletal polarization. In its ecological niche, Dictyostelium engulf bacteria and yeast for nutrient capture. Despite the essential role of TORC1 in control of cellular growth, we show that nutrient particle capture (phagocytosis) in Dictyostelium is independent of TORC1-mediated nutrient sensing and growth regulation. However, loss of Dictyostelium TORC2 components Rictor/Pia, SIN1/RIP3 and Lst8 promotes nutrient particle uptake; inactivation of TORC2 leads to increased efficiency and speed of phagocytosis. In contrast to phagocytosis, we show that macropinocytosis, an AKT-dependent process for cellular uptake of fluid phase nutrients, is not regulated by either of the TOR complexes. The integrated and balanced regulation of TORC1 and TORC2 might be crucial in Dictyostelium to coordinate growth and energy needs with other essential TOR-regulated processes.

Romeralo, M., et al. (2012). "Evolution and diversity of dictyostelid social amoebae." Protist 163(3): 327-343.
	Dictyostelid social amoebae are a large and ancient group of soil microbes with an unusual multicellular stage in their life cycle. Taxonomically, they belong to the eukaryotic supergroup Amoebozoa, the sister group to Opisthokonta (animals + fungi). Roughly half of the ~150 known dictyostelid species were discovered during the last five years and probably many more remain to be found. The traditional classification system of Dictyostelia was completely overturned by cladistic analyses and molecular phylogenies of the past six years. As a result, it now appears that, instead of three major divisions there are eight, none of which correspond to traditional higher-level taxa. In addition to the widely studied Dictyostelium discoideum, there are now efforts to develop model organisms and complete genome sequences for each major group. Thus Dictyostelia is becoming an excellent model for both practical, medically related research and for studying basic principles in cell-cell communication and developmental evolution. In this review we summarize the latest information about their life cycle, taxonomy, evolutionary history, genome projects and practical importance.

Rieu, J. P. and H. Delanoe-Ayari (2012). "Shell tension forces propel Dictyostelium slugs forward." Phys Biol 9(6): 066001.
	The Dictyostelium slug is an excellent model system for studying collective movements, as it is comprised of about 10(5) cells all moving together in the same direction. It still remains unclear how this movement occurs and what the physical mechanisms behind it are. By applying our recently developed 3D traction force microscopy, we propose a simple explanation for slug propulsion. Most of the forces are exerted by the sheath surrounding the slug. This secreted shell is under a rather uniform tension (around 50 mN m(-1)) and will give rise to a tissue under pressure. Finally, we propose that this pressure will naturally push the slug tip forwards if a gradient of shell mechanical properties takes place in the very anterior part of the raised tip.

Renfro, D. P., et al. (2012). "GONUTS: the Gene Ontology Normal Usage Tracking System." Nucleic Acids Res 40(Database issue): D1262-1269.
	The Gene Ontology Normal Usage Tracking System (GONUTS) is a community-based browser and usage guide for Gene Ontology (GO) terms and a community system for general GO annotation of proteins. GONUTS uses wiki technology to allow registered users to share and edit notes on the use of each term in GO, and to contribute annotations for specific genes of interest. By providing a site for generation of third-party documentation at the granularity of individual terms, GONUTS complements the official documentation of the Gene Ontology Consortium. To provide examples for community users, GONUTS displays the complete GO annotations from seven model organisms: Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Dictyostelium discoideum, Caenorhabditis elegans, Drosophila melanogaster, Danio rerio, Mus musculus and Arabidopsis thaliana. To support community annotation, GONUTS allows automated creation of gene pages for gene products in UniProt. GONUTS will improve the consistency of annotation efforts across genome projects, and should be useful in training new annotators and consumers in the production of GO annotations and the use of GO terms. GONUTS can be accessed at http://gowiki.tamu.edu. The source code for generating the content of GONUTS is available upon request.

Poloz, Y. and D. H. O'Day (2012). "Colchicine affects cell motility, pattern formation and stalk cell differentiation in Dictyostelium by altering calcium signaling." Differentiation 83(4): 185-199.
	Previous work, verified here, showed that colchicine affects Dictyostelium pattern formation, disrupts morphogenesis, inhibits spore differentiation and induces terminal stalk cell differentiation. Here we show that colchicine specifically induces ecmB expression and enhances accumulation of ecmB-expressing cells at the posterior end of multicellular structures. Colchicine did not induce a nuclear translocation of DimB, a DIF-1 responsive transcription factor in vitro. It also induced terminal stalk cell differentiation in a mutant strain that does not produce DIF-1 (dmtA-) and after the treatment of cells with DIF-1 synthesis inhibitor cerulenin (100 muM). This suggests that colchicine induces the differentiation of ecmB-expressing cells independent of DIF-1 production and likely through a signaling pathway that is distinct from the one that is utilized by DIF-1. Depending on concentration, colchicine enhanced random cell motility, but not chemotaxis, by 3-5 fold (10-50 mM colchicine, respectively) through a Ca(2+)-mediated signaling pathway involving phospholipase C, calmodulin and heterotrimeric G proteins. Colchicine's effects were not due to microtubule depolymerization as other microtubule-depolymerizing agents did not have these effects. Finally normal morphogenesis and stalk and spore cell differentiation of cells treated with 10 mM colchicine were rescued through chelation of Ca2+ by BAPTA-AM and EDTA and calmodulin antagonism by W-7 but not PLC inhibition by U-73122. Morphogenesis or spore cell differentiation of cells treated with 50 mM colchicine could not be rescued by the above treatments but terminal stalk cell differentiation was inhibited by BAPTA-AM, EDTA and W-7, but not U-73122. Thus colchicine disrupts morphogenesis and induces stalk cell differentiation through a Ca(2+)-mediated signaling pathway involving specific changes in gene expression and cell motility.

Poloz, Y. and D. H. O'Day (2012). "Ca2+ signaling regulates ecmB expression, cell differentiation and slug regeneration in Dictyostelium." Differentiation 84(2): 163-175.
	Ca(2+) regulates cell differentiation and morphogenesis in a diversity of organisms and dysregulation of Ca(2+) signal transduction pathways leads to many cellular pathologies. In Dictyostelium Ca(2+) induces ecmB expression and stalk cell differentiation in vitro. Here we have analyzed the pattern of ecmB expression in intact and bisected slugs and the effect of agents that affect Ca(2+) levels or antagonize calmodulin (CaM) on this expression pattern. We have shown that Ca(2+) and CaM regulate ecmB expression and pstAB/pstB cell differentiation in vivo. Agents that increase intracellular Ca(2+) levels increased ecmB expression and/or pstAB and pstB cell differentiation, while agents that decrease intracellular Ca(2+) or antagonize CaM decreased it. In isolated slug tips agents that affect Ca(2+) levels and antagonize CaM had differential effect on ecmB expression and cell differentiation in the anterior versus posterior zones. Agents that increase intracellular Ca(2+) levels increased the number of ecmB expressing cells in the anterior region of slugs, while agents that decrease intracellular Ca(2+) levels or antagonize CaM activity increased the number of ecmB expressing cells in the posterior. We have also demonstrated that agents that affect Ca(2+) levels or antagonize CaM affect cells motility and regeneration of shape in isolated slug tips and backs and regeneration of tips in isolated slug backs. To our knowledge, this is the first study detailing the pattern of ecmB expression in regenerating slugs as well as the role of Ca(2+) and CaM in the regeneration process and ecmB expression.

Poloz, Y., et al. (2012). "Bestatin inhibits cell growth, cell division, and spore cell differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Eukaryot Cell 11(4): 545-557.
	Bestatin methyl ester (BME) is an inhibitor of Zn(2+)-binding aminopeptidases that inhibits cell proliferation and induces apoptosis in normal and cancer cells. We have used Dictyostelium as a model organism to study the effects of BME. Only two Zn(2+)-binding aminopeptidases have been identified in Dictyostelium to date, puromycin-sensitive aminopeptidase A and B (PsaA and PsaB). PSA from other organisms is known to regulate cell division and differentiation. Here we show that PsaA is differentially expressed throughout growth and development of Dictyostelium, and its expression is regulated by developmental morphogens. We present evidence that BME specifically interacts with PsaA and inhibits its aminopeptidase activity. Treatment of cells with BME inhibited the rate of cell growth and the frequency of cell division in growing cells and inhibited spore cell differentiation during late development. Overexpression of PsaA-GFP (where GFP is green fluorescent protein) also inhibited spore cell differentiation but did not affect growth. Using chimeras, we have identified that nuclear versus cytoplasmic localization of PsaA affects the choice between stalk or spore cell differentiation pathway. Cells that overexpressed PsaA-GFP (primarily nuclear) differentiated into stalk cells, while cells that overexpressed PsaADeltaNLS2-GFP (cytoplasmic) differentiated into spores. In conclusion, we have identified that BME inhibits cell growth, division, and differentiation in Dictyostelium likely through inhibition of PsaA.

Poirier, C. C., et al. (2012). "Deconvolution of the cellular force-generating subsystems that govern cytokinesis furrow ingression." PLoS Comput Biol 8(4): e1002467.
	Cytokinesis occurs through the coordinated action of several biochemically-mediated stresses acting on the cytoskeleton. Here, we develop a computational model of cellular mechanics, and using a large number of experimentally measured biophysical parameters, we simulate cell division under a number of different scenarios. We demonstrate that traction-mediated protrusive forces or contractile forces due to myosin II are sufficient to initiate furrow ingression. Furthermore, we show that passive forces due to the cell's cortical tension and surface curvature allow the furrow to complete ingression. We compare quantitatively the furrow thinning trajectories obtained from simulation with those observed experimentally in both wild-type and myosin II null Dictyostelium cells. Our simulations highlight the relative contributions of different biomechanical subsystems to cell shape progression during cell division.

Pietrosimone, K. M., et al. (2012). "Measurement of cellular chemotaxis with ECIS/Taxis." J Vis Exp(62).
	Cellular movement in response to external stimuli is fundamental to many cellular processes including wound healing, inflammation and the response to infection. A common method to measure chemotaxis is the Boyden chamber assay, in which cells and chemoattractant are separated by a porous membrane. As cells migrate through the membrane toward the chemoattractant, they adhere to the underside of the membrane, or fall into the underlying media, and are subsequently stained and visually counted (1). In this method, cells are exposed to a steep and transient chemoattractant gradient, which is thought to be a poor representation of gradients found in tissues (2). Another assay system, the under-agarose chemotaxis assay, (3, 4) measures cell movement across a solid substrate in a thin aqueous film that forms under the agarose layer. The gradient that develops in the agarose is shallow and is thought to be an appropriate representation of naturally occurring gradients. Chemotaxis can be evaluated by microscopic imaging of the distance traveled. Both the Boyden chamber assay and the under-agarose assay are usually configured as endpoint assays. The automated ECIS/Taxis system combines the under-agarose approach with Electric Cell-substrate Impedance Sensing (ECIS) (5, 6). In this assay, target electrodes are located in each of 8 chambers. A large counter-electrode runs through each of the 8 chambers (Figure 2). Each chamber is filled with agarose and two small wells are the cut in the agarose on either side of the target electrode. One well is filled with the test cell population, while the other holds the sources of diffusing chemoattractant (Figure 3). Current passed through the system can be used to determine the change in resistance that occurs as cells pass over the target electrode. Cells on the target electrode increase the resistance of the system (6). In addition, rapid fluctuations in the resistance represent changes in the interactions of cells with the electrode surface and are indicative of ongoing cellular shape changes. The ECIS/Taxis system can measure movement of the cell population in real-time over extended periods of time, but is also sensitive enough to detect the arrival of a single cell at the target electrode. Dictyostelium discoidium is known to migrate in the presence of a folate gradient (7, 8) and its chemotactic response can be accurately measured by ECIS/Taxis (9). Leukocyte chemotaxis, in response to SDF1alpha and to chemotaxis antagonists has also been measured with ECIS/Taxis (10, 11). An example of the leukocyte response to SDF1alpha is shown in Figure 1.

Phillips, J. E. and R. H. Gomer (2012). "A secreted protein is an endogenous chemorepellant in Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 109(27): 10990-10995.
	Chemorepellants may play multiple roles in physiological and pathological processes. However, few endogenous chemorepellants have been identified, and how they function is unclear. We found that the autocrine signal AprA, which is produced by growing Dictyostelium discoideum cells and inhibits their proliferation, also functions as a chemorepellant. Wild-type cells at the edge of a colony show directed movement outward from the colony, whereas cells lacking AprA do not. Cells show directed movement away from a source of recombinant AprA and dialyzed conditioned media from wild-type cells, but not dialyzed conditioned media from aprA(-) cells. The secreted protein CfaD, the G protein Galpha8, and the kinase QkgA are necessary for the chemorepellant activity of AprA as well as its proliferation-inhibiting activity, whereas the putative transcription factor BzpN is dispensable for the chemorepellant activity of AprA but necessary for inhibition of proliferation. Phospholipase C and PI3 kinases 1 and 2, which are necessary for the activity of at least one other chemorepellant in Dictyostelium, are not necessary for recombinant AprA chemorepellant activity. Starved cells are not repelled by recombinant AprA, suggesting that aggregation-phase cells are not sensitive to the chemorepellant effect. Cell tracking indicates that AprA affects the directional bias of cell movement, but not cell velocity or the persistence of cell movement. Together, our data indicate that the endogenous signal AprA acts as an autocrine chemorepellant for Dictyostelium cells.

Pflaum, K., et al. (2012). "Lipopolysaccharide induction of autophagy is associated with enhanced bactericidal activity in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem Biophys Res Commun 422(3): 417-422.
	Innate immune cells respond to microbial invaders using pattern recognition receptors that detect conserved microbial patterns. Among the cellular processes stimulated downstream of pattern recognition machinery is the initiation of autophagy, which plays protective roles against intracellular microbes. We have shown recently that Dictyostelium discoideum, which takes up bacteria for nutritive purposes, may employ pattern recognition machinery to respond to bacterial prey, as D. discoideum cells upregulate bactericidal activity upon stimulation by lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Here we extend these findings, showing that LPS treatment leads to induction of autophagosomal maturation in cells responding to the bacteria Staphylococcus aureus. Cells treated with the autophagy-inducing drug rapamycin clear internalized bacteria at an accelerated rate, while LPS-enhanced clearance of bacteria is reduced in cells deficient for the autophagy-related genes atg1 and atg9. These findings link microbial pattern recognition with autophagy in the social amoeba D. discoideum.

Pfannes, E. K., et al. (2012). "Impact of the carbazole derivative wiskostatin on mechanical stability and dynamics of motile cells." J Muscle Res Cell Motil 33(2): 95-106.
	Many essential functions in eukaryotic cells like phagocytosis, division, and motility rely on the dynamical properties of the actin cytoskeleton. A central player in the actin system is the Arp2/3 complex. Its activity is controlled by members of the WASP (Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein) family. In this work, we investigated the effect of the carbazole derivative wiskostatin, a recently identified N-WASP inhibitor, on actin-driven processes in motile cells of the social ameba Dictyostelium discoideum. Drug-treated cells exhibited an altered morphology and strongly reduced pseudopod formation. However, TIRF microscopy images revealed that the overall cortical network structure remained intact. We probed the mechanical stability of wiskostatin-treated cells using a microfluidic device. While the total amount of F-actin in the cells remained constant, their stiffness was strongly reduced. Furthermore, wiskostatin treatment enhanced the resistance to fluid shear stress, while spontaneous motility as well as chemotactic motion in gradients of cAMP were reduced. Our results suggest that wiskostatin affects the mechanical integrity of the actin cortex so that its rigidity is reduced and actin-driven force generation is impaired.

Pei, J. and N. V. Grishin (2012). "Cysteine-rich domains related to Frizzled receptors and Hedgehog-interacting proteins." Protein Sci 21(8): 1172-1184.
	Frizzled and Smoothened are homologous seven-transmembrane proteins functioning in the Wnt and Hedgehog signaling pathways, respectively. They harbor an extracellular cysteine-rich domain (FZ-CRD), a mobile evolutionary unit that has been found in a number of other metazoan proteins and Frizzled-like proteins in Dictyostelium. Domains distantly related to FZ-CRDs, in Hedgehog-interacting proteins (HHIPs), folate receptors and riboflavin-binding proteins (FRBPs), and Niemann-Pick Type C1 proteins (NPC1s), referred to as HFN-CRDs, exhibit similar structures and disulfide connectivity patterns compared with FZ-CRDs. We used computational analyses to expand the homologous set of FZ-CRDs and HFN-CRDs, providing a better understanding of their evolution and classification. First, FZ-CRD-containing proteins with various domain compositions were identified in several major eukaryotic lineages including plants and Chromalveolata, revealing a wider phylogenetic distribution of FZ-CRDs than previously recognized. Second, two new and distinct groups of highly divergent FZ-CRDs were found by sensitive similarity searches. One of them is present in the calcium channel component Mid1 in fungi and the uncharacterized FAM155 proteins in metazoans. Members of the other new FZ-CRD group occur in the metazoan-specific RECK (reversion-inducing-cysteine-rich protein with Kazal motifs) proteins that are putative tumor suppressors acting as inhibitors of matrix metalloproteases. Finally, sequence and three-dimensional structural comparisons helped us uncover a divergent HFN-CRD in glypicans, which are important morphogen-binding heparan sulfate proteoglycans. Such a finding reinforces the evolutionary ties between the Wnt and Hedgehog signaling pathways and underscores the importance of gene duplications in creating essential signaling components in metazoan evolution.

Pears, C. J., et al. (2012). "The role of ADP-ribosylation in regulating DNA double-strand break repair." Cell Cycle 11(1): 48-56.
	ADP-ribosylation is the post translational modification of proteins catalysed by ADP-ribosyltransferases (ARTs). ADP-ribosylation has been implicated in a wide variety of cellular processes including cell growth and differentiation, apoptosis and transcriptional regulation. Perhaps the best characterised role, however, is in DNA repair and genome stability where ADP-ribosylation promotes resolution of DNA single strand breaks. Although ADP-ribosylation also occurs at DNA double strand breaks (DSBs), which ARTs catalyse this reaction and the molecular basis of how this modification regulates their repair remains a matter of debate. Here we review recent advances in our understanding of how ADP-ribosylation regulates DSB repair. Specifically, we highlight studies using the genetic model organism Dictyostelium, in addition to vertebrate cells that identify a third ART that accelerates DSB repair by non-homologous end-joining through promoting the interaction of repair factors with DNA lesions. The implications of these data with regards to how ADP-ribosylation regulates DNA repair and genome stability are discussed.

Paschke, P., et al. (2012). "The isoform B of the Dictyostelium long-chain fatty-acyl-coenzyme A synthetase is initially inserted into the ER and subsequently provides peroxisomes with an activity important for efficient phagocytosis." Eur J Cell Biol 91(9): 717-727.
	Long-chain fatty-acyl-coenzyme A synthetases activate fatty acids for anabolic or catabolic metabolism. They often localize to more than one organelle within eukaryotic cells. Dictyostelium contains two of these proteins, FcsA and FcsB with the latter being targeted to the membrane of the endoplasmic reticulum by virtue of an N-terminal signal sequence and from there appears to move on to peroxisomes. Deletion of this signal favors the peripheral association of the protein with the mitochondrial surface instead. A strain lacking the activity of the FcsB enzyme was constructed by homologous recombination. It has a severe deficiency in the phagocytic uptake of particles, which can be partially alleviated by a peroxisomally targeted, soluble FcsA enzyme. It is, however, not rescued by expressing FcsA in the cytoplasm or targeting it to the ER, indicating that peroxisomal beta-oxidation is important for phagocytosis. In a fcsA(-)/B(-) double mutant phagocytosis efficiency is similar to fcsB(-) cells. However, unlike the single mutants, the fcsA(-)/B(-) strain is delayed in morphogenesis, but forms viable spores, albeit within a small fruiting body. This developmental defect is also seen in other mutants affecting peroxisomal enzymes involved in beta-oxidation and the glyoxylate cycle.

Papakrivos, J., et al. (2012). "Functional characterization of the Plasmodium falciparum chloroquine-resistance transporter (PfCRT) in transformed Dictyostelium discoideum vesicles." PLoS One 7(6): e39569.
	BACKGROUND: Chloroquine (CQ)-resistant Plasmodium falciparum malaria has been a global health catastrophe, yet much about the CQ resistance (CQR) mechanism remains unclear. Hallmarks of the CQR phenotype include reduced accumulation of protonated CQ as a weak base in the digestive vacuole of the erythrocyte-stage parasite, and chemosensitization of CQ-resistant (but not CQ-sensitive) P. falciparum by agents such as verapamil. Mutations in the P. falciparum CQR transporter (PfCRT) confer CQR; particularly important among these mutations is the charge-loss substitution K-->T at position 76. Dictyostelium discoideum transformed with mutant PfCRT expresses key features of CQR including reduced drug accumulation and verapamil chemosensitization. METHODOLOGY AND FINDINGS: We describe the isolation and characterization of PfCRT-transformed, hematin-free vesicles from D. discoideum cells. These vesicles permit assessments of drug accumulation, pH, and membrane potential that are difficult or impossible with hematin-containing digestive vacuoles from P. falciparum-infected erythrocytes. Mutant PfCRT-transformed D. discoideum vesicles show features of the CQR phenotype, and manipulations of vesicle membrane potential by agents including ionophores produce large changes of CQ accumulation that are dissociated from vesicular pH. PfCRT in its native or mutant form blunts the ability of valinomycin to reduce CQ accumulation in transformed vesicles and decreases the ability of K(+) to reverse membrane potential hyperpolarization caused by valinomycin treatment. CONCLUSION: Isolated vesicles from mutant-PfCRT-transformed D. discoideum exhibit features of the CQR phenotype, consistent with evidence that the drug resistance mechanism operates at the P. falciparum digestive vacuole membrane in malaria. Membrane potential apart from pH has a major effect on the PfCRT-mediated CQR phenotype of D. discoideum vesicles. These results support a model of PfCRT as an electrochemical potential-driven transporter in the drug/metabolite superfamily that (appropriately mutated) acts as a saturable simple carrier for the facilitated diffusion of protonated CQ.

Pakes, N. K., et al. (2012). "The Rac GEF ZizB regulates development, cell motility and cytokinesis in Dictyostelium." J Cell Sci 125(Pt 10): 2457-2465.
	Dock (dedicator of cytokinesis) proteins represent a family of guanine nucleotide exchange factors (GEFs) that include the well-studied Dock180 family and the poorly characterised zizimin family. Our current understanding of Dock180 function is that it regulates Rho small GTPases and thus has a role in a number of cell processes, including cell migration, development and division. Here, we use a tractable model for cell motility research, Dictyostelium discoideum, to help elucidate the role of the related zizimin proteins. We show that gene ablation of zizA causes no change in development, whereas ablation of zizB gives rise to an aberrant developmental morphology and a reduction in cell directionality and velocity, and altered cell shape. Fluorescently labelled ZizA protein associates with the microtubule-organising centre (MTOC), whereas ZizB is enriched in the cortex. Overexpression of ZizB also causes an increase in the number of filopodia and a partial inhibition of cytokinesis. Analysis of ZizB protein binding partners shows that it interacts with Rac1a and a range of actin-associated proteins. In conclusion, our work provides insight into the molecular and cellular functions of zizimin GEF proteins, which are shown to have a role in cell movement, filopodia formation and cytokinesis.

Oh, S. A., et al. (2012). "Arabidopsis Fused kinase and the Kinesin-12 subfamily constitute a signalling module required for phragmoplast expansion." Plant J 72(2): 308-319.
	The conserved Fused kinase plays vital but divergent roles in many organisms from Hedgehog signalling in Drosophila to polarization and chemotaxis in Dictyostelium. Previously we have shown that Arabidopsis Fused kinase termed TWO-IN-ONE (TIO) is essential for cytokinesis in both sporophytic and gametophytic cell types. Here using in vivo imaging of GFP-tagged microtubules in dividing microspores we show that TIO is required for expansion of the phragmoplast. We identify the phragmoplast-associated kinesins, PAKRP1/Kinesin-12A and PAKRP1L/Kinesin-12B, as TIO-interacting proteins and determine TIO-Kinesin-12 interaction domains and their requirement in male gametophytic cytokinesis. Our results support the role of TIO as a functional protein kinase that interacts with Kinesin-12 subfamily members mainly through the C-terminal ARM repeat domain, but with a contribution from the N-terminal kinase domain. The interaction of TIO with Kinesin proteins and the functional requirement of their interaction domains support the operation of a Fused kinase signalling module in phragmoplast expansion that depends upon conserved structural features in diverse Fused kinases.

O'Day, D. H. and A. Keszei (2012). "Signalling and sex in the social amoebozoans." Biol Rev Camb Philos Soc 87(2): 313-329.
	The social amoebozoans have a life tricycle consisting of asexual multicellular development leading to fruiting bodies, sexual multicellular development resulting in macrocysts, and unicellular development generating microcysts. This review covers the events of sexual development in the best-studied heterothallic (Dictyostelium discoideum) and homothallic (D. mucoroides) mating systems. Sexual development begins with pheromonal interactions that produce fusion-competent cells (gametes) which undergo cell and pronuclear fusion. Calcium- and calmodulin-mediated signalling mediates these early events. As they initiate chemotactic signalling, each zygote increases in size becoming a zygote giant cell. Using cyclic AMP (cAMP), the zygote chemotactically lures in amoebae and engulfs them in an act of cannibalistic phagocytosis. Chemotaxis proceeds more quickly than endocytosis because the breakdown products of cAMP (5-AMP, adenosine) bind to a presumptive adenosine receptor to inhibit sexual phagocytosis. This slowing of phagocytosis allows amoebae to accumulate around the zygote to form a precyst aggregate. Zygote giant cells also produce several other signalling molecules that feed back to regulate early events. The amoebae surrounding the zygote seal their fate as zygotic foodstuff by secreting a primary cellulose wall, the extracellular sheath, around the zygote and aggregated amoebae, which prevents their escape. Phagocytosis within this precyst continues until all peripheral amoebae are internalized as endocytes and the final macrocyst wall is formed. Endocyte digestion results in a mature macrocyst with a uniform cytoplasm containing a diploid nucleus. After detailing the morphological events of heterothallic and homothallic mating, we review the various intercellular signalling events and other mechanisms involved in each stage. This complete and comprehensive review sets the stage for future research on the unique events that characterize sex in the social amoebozoans.

O'Day, D. H., et al. (2012). "Extracellular calmodulin regulates growth and cAMP-mediated chemotaxis in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem Biophys Res Commun 425(4): 750-754.
	The existence of extracellular calmodulin (CaM) has had a long and controversial history. CaM is a ubiquitous calcium-binding protein that has been found in every eukaryotic cell system. Calcium-free apo-CaM and Ca(2+)/CaM exert their effects by binding to and regulating the activity of CaM-binding proteins (CaMBPs). Most of the research done to date on CaM and its CaMBPs has focused on their intracellular functions. The presence of extracellular CaM is well established in a number of plants where it functions in proliferation, cell wall regeneration, gene regulation and germination. While CaM has been detected extracellularly in several animal species, including frog, rat, rabbit and human, its extracellular localization and functions are less well established. In contrast the study of extracellular CaM in eukaryotic microbes remains to be done. Here we show that CaM is constitutively expressed and secreted throughout asexual development in Dictyostelium where the presence of extracellular CaM dose-dependently inhibits cell proliferation but increases cAMP mediated chemotaxis. During development, extracellular CaM localizes within the slime sheath where it coexists with at least one CaMBP, the matricellular CaM-binding protein CyrA. Coupled with previous research, this work provides direct evidence for the existence of extracellular CaM in the Dictyostelium and provides insight into its functions in this model amoebozoan.

Nuttall, J. M., et al. (2012). "Farnesyl diphosphate synthase, the target for nitrogen-containing bisphosphonate drugs, is a peroxisomal enzyme in the model system Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem J 447(3): 353-361.
	NBP (nitrogen-containing bisphosphonate) drugs protect against excessive osteoclast-mediated bone resorption. After binding to bone mineral, they are taken up selectively by the osteoclasts and inhibit the essential enzyme FDPS (farnesyl diphosphate synthase). NBPs inhibit also growth of amoebae of Dictyostelium discoideum in which their target is again FDPS. A fusion protein between FDPS and GFP (green fluorescent protein) was found, in D. discoideum, to localize to peroxisomes and to confer resistance to the NBP alendronate. GFP was also directed to peroxisomes by a fragment of FDPS comprising amino acids 1-22. This contains a sequence of nine amino acids that closely resembles the nonapeptide PTS2 (peroxisomal targeting signal type 2): there is only a single amino acid mismatch between the two sequences. Mutation analysis confirmed that the atypical PTS2 directs FDPS into peroxisomes. Furthermore, expression of the D. discoideum FDPS-GFP fusion protein in strains of Saccharomyces cerevisiae defective in peroxisomal protein import demonstrated that import of FDPS into peroxisomes was blocked in a strain lacking the PTS2-dependent import pathway. The peroxisomal location of FDPS in D. discoideum indicates that NBPs have to cross the peroxisomal membrane before they can bind to their target.

Nunez-Corcuera, B., et al. (2012). "Transcriptional Repression by a bZIP Protein Regulates Dictyostelium Prespore Differentiation." PLoS One 7(1): e29895.
	In response to the signaling polyketide DIF-1 DimB directly activates transcription of the ecmB gene in pstB cells; a subset of the prestalk cells that are the precursors of the basal disc. We show that the promoter of pspA, a prespore-specific gene, also contains a DimB binding site. Mutation of this site causes ectopic expression in the prestalk region and ChIP analysis shows that DIF-1 induces binding of DimB to the pspA promoter. DIF-1 represses pspA gene expression in a suspension cell assay but this repression is abrogated in a dimB null strain. These results suggest a coupled control mechanism, whereby the same DIF-DimB signaling pathway that directly activates ecmB gene expression directly represses pspA gene expression.

Noratel, E. F., et al. (2012). "The adhesion modulation protein, AmpA localizes to an endocytic compartment and influences substrate adhesion, actin polymerization and endocytosis in vegetative Dictyostelium cells." BMC Cell Biol 13: 29.
	BACKGROUND: AmpA is a secreted 24Kd protein that has pleiotropic effects on Dictyostelium development. Null mutants delay development at the mound stage with cells adhering too tightly to the substrate. Prestalk cells initially specify as prespore cells and are delayed in their migration to the mound apex. Extracellular AmpA can rescue these defects, but AmpA is also necessary in a cell autonomous manner for anterior like cells (ALCs) to migrate to the upper cup. The ALCs are only 10% of the developing cell population making it difficult to study the cell autonomous effect of AmpA on the migration of these cells. AmpA is also expressed in growing cells, but, while it contains a hydrophobic leader sequence that is cleaved, it is not secreted from growing cells. This makes growing cells an attractive system for studying the cell autonomous function of AmpA. RESULTS: In growing cells AmpA plays an environment dependent role in cell migration. Excess AmpA facilitates migration on soft, adhesive surfaces but hinders migration on less adhesive surfaces. AmpA also effects the level of actin polymerization. Knockout cells polymerize less actin while over expressing cells polymerize more actin than wild type. Overexpression of AmpA also causes an increase in endocytosis that is traced to repeated formation of multiple endocytic cups at the same site on the membrane. Immunofluorescence analysis shows that AmpA is found in the Golgi and colocalizes with calnexin and the slow endosomal recycling compartment marker, p25, in a perinuclear compartment. AmpA is found on the cell periphery and is endocytically recycled to the perinuclear compartment. CONCLUSION: AmpA is processed through the secretory pathway and traffics to the cell periphery where it is endocytosed and localizes to what has been defined as a slow endosomal recycling compartment. AmpA plays a role in actin polymerization and cell substrate adhesion. Additionally AmpA influences cell migration in an environment dependent manner. Wild type cells show very little variation in migration rates under the different conditions examined here, but either loss or over expression of AmpA cause significant substrate and environment dependent changes in migration.

Nishimura, S. I., et al. (2012). "Non-Brownian dynamics and strategy of amoeboid cell locomotion." Phys Rev E Stat Nonlin Soft Matter Phys 85(4 Pt 1): 041909.
	Amoeboid cells such as Dictyostelium discoideum and Madin-Darby canine kidney cells show the non-Brownian dynamics of migration characterized by the superdiffusive increase of mean-squared displacement. In order to elucidate the physical mechanism of this non-Brownian dynamics, a computational model is developed which highlights a group of inhibitory molecules for actin polymerization. Based on this model, we propose a hypothesis that inhibitory molecules are sent backward in the moving cell to accumulate at the rear of cell. The accumulated inhibitory molecules at the rear further promote cell locomotion to form a slow positive feedback loop of the whole-cell scale. The persistent straightforward migration is stabilized with this feedback mechanism, but the fluctuation in the distribution of inhibitory molecules and the cell shape deformation concurrently interrupt the persistent motion to turn the cell into a new direction. A sequence of switching behaviors between persistent motions and random turns gives rise to the superdiffusive migration in the absence of the external guidance signal. In the complex environment with obstacles, this combined process of persistent motions and random turns drives the simulated amoebae to solve the maze problem in a highly efficient way, which suggests the biological advantage for cells to bear the non-Brownian dynamics.

Nikolaeva, I., et al. (2012). "EGF-like peptide of Dictyostelium discoideum is not a chemoattractant but it does restore folate-mediated chemotaxis in the presence of signal transduction inhibitors." Peptides.
	A synthetic EGF-like (EGFL) peptide (DdEGFL1), equivalent to the first EGFL domain in the extracellular matrix protein CyrA, has previously been shown to enhance random cell motility and cAMP-mediated chemotaxis in Dictyostelium discoideum. However the role of DdEGFL1 as a potential chemoattractant had not been addressed. In this study, a micropipette assay and an under-agarose migration assay showed that DdEGFL1 is not a chemoattractant for Dictyostelium cells. A radial bioassay was used to show that DdEGFL1 does not significantly enhance folate-mediated chemotaxis in contrast to its chemokinetic effect during chemotaxis toward cAMP. However, DdEGFL1 was able to rescue chemotaxis toward folate when the pathway was inhibited by pharmacological agents that inhibit known components of the signaling cascade (e.g. phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase, phospholipase A2, tyrosine kinases, and calmodulin). These data suggest that DdEGFL1 may activate a novel motility pathway that when coupled with folic acid receptor activation, can maintain the normal migratory response to folic acid in vegetative cells. Together, this data provides new insight into the function of EGFL repeats during Dictyostelium chemotaxis and the existence of a novel motility pathway regulated by EGFL peptides and/or repeats in this model organism.

Nelson, S. A., et al. (2012). "Tumorigenic fragments of APC cause dominant defects in directional cell migration in multiple model systems." Dis Model Mech 5(6): 940-947.
	Nonsense mutations that result in the expression of truncated, N-terminal, fragments of the adenomatous polyposis coli (APC) tumour suppressor protein are found in most sporadic and some hereditary colorectal cancers. These mutations can cause tumorigenesis by eliminating beta-catenin-binding sites from APC, which leads to upregulation of beta-catenin and thereby results in the induction of oncogenes such as MYC. Here we show that, in three distinct experimental model systems, expression of an N-terminal fragment of APC (N-APC) results in loss of directionality, but not speed, of cell motility independently of changes in beta-catenin regulation. We developed a system to culture and fluorescently label live pieces of gut tissue to record high-resolution three-dimensional time-lapse movies of cells in situ. This revealed an unexpected complexity of normal gut cell migration, a key process in gut epithelial maintenance, with cells moving with spatial and temporal discontinuity. Quantitative comparison of gut tissue from wild-type mice and APC heterozygotes (APC(Min/+); multiple intestinal neoplasia model) demonstrated that cells in precancerous epithelia lack directional preference when moving along the crypt-villus axis. This effect was reproduced in diverse experimental systems: in developing chicken embryos, mesoderm cells expressing N-APC failed to migrate normally; in amoeboid Dictyostelium, which lack endogenous APC, expressing an N-APC fragment maintained cell motility, but the cells failed to perform directional chemotaxis; and multicellular Dictyostelium slug aggregates similarly failed to perform phototaxis. We propose that N-terminal fragments of APC represent a gain-of-function mutation that causes cells within tissue to fail to migrate directionally in response to relevant guidance cues. Consistent with this idea, crypts in histologically normal tissues of APC(Min/+) intestines are overpopulated with cells, suggesting that a lack of migration might cause cell accumulation in a precancerous state.

Neelamegan, D., et al. (2012). "Identification and recombinant expression of anandamide hydrolyzing enzyme from Dictyostelium discoideum." BMC Microbiol 12: 124.
	BACKGROUND: Anandamide (Arachidonoyl ethanolamide) is a potent bioactive lipid studied extensively in humans, which regulates several neurobehavioral processes including pain, feeding and memory. Bioactivity is terminated when hydrolyzed into free arachidonic acid and ethanolamine by the enzyme fatty acid amide hydrolase (FAAH). In this study we report the identification of a FAAH homolog from Dictyostelium discoideum and its function to hydrolyze anandamide. RESULTS: A putative FAAH DNA sequence coding for a conserved amidase signature motif was identified in the Dictyostelium genome database and the corresponding cDNA was isolated and expressed as an epitope tagged fusion protein in either E.coli or Dictyostelium. Wild type Dictyostelium cells express FAAH throughout their development life cycle and the protein was found to be predominantly membrane associated. Production of recombinant HIS tagged FAAH protein was not supported in E.coli host, but homologous Dictyostelium host was able to produce the same successfully. Recombinant FAAH protein isolated from Dictyostelium was shown to hydrolyze anandamide and related synthetic fatty acid amide substrates. CONCLUSIONS: This study describes the first identification and characterisation of an anandamide hydrolyzing enzyme from Dictyostelium discoideum, suggesting the potential of Dictyostelium as a simple eukaryotic model system for studying mechanisms of action of any FAAH inhibitors as drug targets.

Myre, M. A. (2012). "Clues to gamma-secretase, huntingtin and Hirano body normal function using the model organism Dictyostelium discoideum." J Biomed Sci 19: 41.
	Many neurodegenerative disorders, although related by their destruction of brain function, display remarkable cellular and/or regional pathogenic specificity likely due to a deregulated functionality of the mutant protein. However, neurodegenerative disease genes, for example huntingtin (HTT), the ataxins, the presenilins (PSEN1/PSEN2) are not simply localized to neurons but are ubiquitously expressed throughout peripheral tissues; it is therefore paramount to properly understand the earliest precipitating events leading to neuronal pathogenesis to develop effective long-term therapies. This means, in no unequivocal terms, it is crucial to understand the gene's normal function. Unfortunately, many genes are often essential for embryogenesis which precludes their study in whole organisms. This is true for HTT, the beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP) and presenilins, responsible for early onset Alzheimer's disease (AD). To better understand neurological disease in humans, many lower and higher eukaryotic models have been established. So the question arises: how reasonable is the use of organisms to study neurological disorders when the model of choice does not contain neurons? Here we will review the surprising, and novel emerging use of the model organism Dictyostelium discoideum, a species of soil-living amoeba, as a valuable biomedical tool to study the normal function of neurodegenerative genes. Historically, the evidence on the usefulness of simple organisms to understand the etiology of cellular pathology cannot be denied. But using an organism without a central nervous system to understand diseases of the brain? We will first introduce the life cycle of Dictyostelium, the presence of many disease genes in the genome and how it has provided unique opportunities to identify mechanisms of disease involving actin pathologies, mitochondrial disease, human lysosomal and trafficking disorders and host-pathogen interactions. Secondly, I will highlight recent studies on the function of HTT, presenilin gamma-secretase and Hirano bodies conducted in Dictyostelium. I will then outline the limitations and future directions in using Dictyostelium to study disease, and finally conclude that given the evolutionary conservation of genes between Dictyostelium and humans and the organisms' genetic tractability, that this system provides a fertile environment for discovering normal gene function related to neurodegeneration and will permit translational studies in higher systems.

Muramoto, T., et al. (2012). "Live imaging of nascent RNA dynamics reveals distinct types of transcriptional pulse regulation." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 109(19): 7350-7355.
	Transcription of genes can be discontinuous, occurring in pulses or bursts. It is not clear how properties of transcriptional pulses vary between different genes. We compared the pulsing of five housekeeping and five developmentally induced genes by direct imaging of single gene transcriptional events in individual living Dictyostelium cells. Each gene displayed its own transcriptional signature, differing in probability of firing and pulse duration, frequency, and intensity. In contrast to the prevailing view from both prokaryotes and eukaryotes that transcription displays binary behavior, strongly expressed housekeeping genes altered the magnitude of their transcriptional pulses during development. These nonbinary "tunable" responses may be better suited than stochastic switch behavior for housekeeping functions. Analysis of RNA synthesis kinetics using fluorescence recovery after photobleaching implied modulation of housekeeping-gene pulse strength occurs at the level of transcription initiation rather than elongation. In addition, disparities between single cell and population measures of transcript production suggested differences in RNA stability between gene classes. Analysis of stability using RNAseq revealed no major global differences in stability between developmental and housekeeping transcripts, although strongly induced RNAs showed unusually rapid decay, indicating tight regulation of expression.

Muraki, M. (2012). "Heterologous production of death ligands' and death receptors' extracellular domains: structural features and efficient systems." Protein Pept Lett 19(8): 867-879.
	The extracellular domains of death ligands and those of death receptors are closely related to many serious human diseases through the initiation of apoptosis. Recombinant production of the extracellular domains has been investigated due to demand for a large amount of purified samples, which are a prerequisite for their biochemical characterization and constitute the fundamentals of medical applications. This review focuses on the recombinant production of extracellular domains of the major members of death ligand and death receptor families using non-mammalian expression systems with an emphasis on Fas ligand and Fas receptor. In contrast to the efficient production of the functional extracellular domains of TRAIL, TNFalpha and LTalpha by intracellular expression systems using Escherichia coli or Pichia pastoris, that of Fas ligand requires the secretory expression systems using P. pastoris or Dictyostelium discoideum, and the productivity in P. pastoris was largely dependent on tag sequence, potential N-glycosylation site and expressed protein region. On the other hand, the exploitation of insect cell systems is generally useful for the preparation of functional extracellular domains of death receptors containing many disulfide bridges in the absence of extended secondary structure, and a Bombyx mori larvae secretion system presented a superior productivity for human Fas receptor extracellular domain. Based on the results obtained so far, further efforts should be devoted to the artificial control of death ligand - death receptor interactions in order to make a contribution to medicine, represented by the development of novel biopharmaceuticals.

Mun, H. and T. J. Jeon (2012). "Regulation of actin cytoskeleton by Rap1 binding to RacGEF1." Mol Cells 34(1): 71-76.
	Rap1 is rapidly and transiently activated in response to chemoattractant stimulation and helps establish cell polarity by locally modulating cytoskeletons. Here, we investigated the mechanisms by which Rap1 controls actin cytoskeletal reorganization in Dictyostelium and found that Rap1 interacts with RacGEF1 in vitro and stimulates F-actin polymerization at the sites where Rap1 is activated upon chemoattractant stimulation. Live cell imaging using GFP-coronin, a reporter for F-actin, demonstrates that cells expressing constitutively active Rap1 (Rap1CA) exhibit a high level of F-actin uniformly distributed at the cortex including the posterior and lateral sides of the chemotaxing cell. Examination of the localization of a PH-domain containing PIP3 reporter, PhdA-GFP, and the activation of Akt/Pkb and other Ras proteins in Rap1CA cells reveals that activated Rap1 has no effect on the production of PIP3 or the activation of Akt/Pkb and Ras proteins in response to chemoattractant stimulation. Rac family proteins are crucial regulators in actin cytoskeletal reorganization. In vitro binding assay using truncated RacGEF1 proteins shows that Rap1 interacts with the DH domain of RacGEF1. Taken together, these results suggest that Rap1-mediated F-actin polymerization probably occurs through the Rac signaling pathway by directly binding to RacGEF1.

Motohashi, K. A., et al. (2012). "Identification of des-methyl-DIF-1 methyltransferase in Dictyostelium purpureum." Biosci Biotechnol Biochem 76(9): 1672-1676.
	The signalling molecule 1-(3,5-dichloro-2,6-dihydroxy-4-methoxyphenyl) hexan-1-one (DIF-1) is required for differentiation and pattern formation in Dictyostelium discoideum development. DIF-1 is synthesized by three enzymes, a hybrid polyketide synthase, a flavin-dependent halogenase, and a des-methyl-DIF-1 methyltransferase. The genome data on the related species D. purpureum are now public. Using this genome information, des-methyl-DIF-1 methyltransferase of D. purpureum was identified, and was named Dp dmtA. Overexpression of Dp dmtA complemented the defects in basal disc formation and lower cup formation in a dmtA knock-out mutant of D. discoideum. This indicates that Dp dmtA has the same function as D. discoideum dmtA and compensates for loss of the dmtA gene in the D. discoideum dmtA mutant. The materials released in the medium by D. purpureum contained stalk-inducing activity with the same retention time as that of DIF-1 in HPLC fractionation. This indicates that the stalk-inducing signal of DIF-1 and des-methyl-DIF-1 methyltransferase are conserved in D. purpureum.

Moorthy, B. S. and G. S. Anand (2012). "Multistate allostery in response regulators: phosphorylation and mutagenesis activate RegA via alternate modes." J Mol Biol 417(5): 468-487.
	Response regulators (RRs) belong to two-component signaling pathways, widely prevalent in bacteria and lower eukaryotes, for sensing and mediating responses to diverse environmental stress stimuli. RRs are modular proteins, and in most instances, a receiver domain is found connected to diverse effector domain(s). All receiver domains contain a conserved aspartate, which is the site of phosphorylation by an associated histidine kinase. RRs function as phosphorylatable signaling switches whereby histidine-kinase-mediated phosphorylation of RRs alters its output function. It is largely unknown how phosphorylation of the receiver domain triggers activation of distally positioned effector domain(s). Although crystal structures have highlighted differences in conformations from comparisons of snapshots of the unphosphorylated and phosphorylated receiver domains, how this is translated into altered activity of a distal effector domain has remained a mystery. While allosteric relays have been identified within receiver domains by NMR and X-ray crystallography, phosphorylated states of larger multidomain RRs have not yet been characterized. In this study, we have used amide hydrogen/deuterium exchange mass spectrometry to probe the conformational dynamics of a multidomain RR, RegA from Dictyostelium discoideum, by comparisons of the unphosphorylated and phosphorylated states and an activating mutant. Our results reveal allosteric coupling between the site of phosphorylation and the activating mutation. Interestingly, however, the conformations of the effector domains in both instances are distinct. Hydrogen/deuterium exchange mass spectrometry indicates that the 'inactive' and 'active' conformations exist as ensembles of multiple conformations. This is consistent with the 'conformational selection' model for describing phosphorylation-dependent regulation of multidomain RRs.

Mir, H., et al. (2012). "Staurosporine induced poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase independent cell death in Dictyostelium discoideum." Indian J Exp Biol 50(1): 80-86.
	In the present study D. discoideum has been used as a model organism to understand the role of poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) in caspase independent paraptotic cell death pathways. D. discoideum lacks caspases and Bcl-2 family proteins; nevertheless it has 9 potential genes for PARP. PARP has been known to get activated in various cell death associated diseases. In this study kinetics of cell death induced by staurosporine (STS), a bacterial alkaloid, was established to unravel the role of PARP. It was found that STS induced cell death in D. discoideum did not involve PARP activation, however it involved cathepsin D. Results indicated that an alternative mechanism may be existing in D. discoideum that lacks Bcl-2 family proteins for STS induced cell death that evades Bax involvement.

Meza, I., et al. (2012). "Molecular and functional characterization of an Entamoeba histolytica protein (EhMLCI) with features of a myosin essential light chain." Mol Biochem Parasitol 181(1): 17-28.
	Entamoeba histolytica, a protozoan parasite of humans, relays on its striking motility to survive and invade host tissues. Characterization of the molecular components involved in motile processes is crucial to understand its pathogenicity. Although protein components of myosin II hexamers have been predicted from E. histolytica genome data, only a heavy chain of myosin, EhmhcA, has been characterized so far. We have cloned an E. histolytica cDNA sequence that best matched Dictyostelium discoideum myosin essential light chain and found that the cloned sequence is transcribed as an mRNA of 0.445 kb which could encode a protein of 16.88 kDa, within the predicted range for a myosin light chain. In silico analyses revealed that the protein sequence, named EhMLCI, shows two consensus domains for binding MHC, but lacks the N-terminal sequence for actin binding, as in A2 type myosin essential light chains. A single EF-hand calcium-binding domain was identified in the C-terminus and several high score predictability sites for serine and tyrosine phosphorylation. Antibodies to recombinant EhMLCI identified two proteins of approximately 17 and 15 kDa in trophozoite extracts, the latter phophorylated in tyrosines. Serine phosphorylation was not detected. Immunomicroscopy revealed EhMLCI cortical and cytoplasmic distribution in trophozoites and true colocalization with EhmhcA determined by PCC. Co-immunoprecipitation corroborated EhMLCI interaction with EhmhcA. EhMLCI was also localized in actomyosin-containing complexes. Differential partition of phospho-tyrosinated EhMLCI into cell fractions containing the soluble form of EhmhcA and its lack of serine phosphorylation suggest its possible participation in a novel down regulatory mechanism of myosin II activity in E. histolytica.

Matsuoka, S., et al. (2012). "Preparation of chemotactically competent Dictyostelium cells." Cold Spring Harb Protoc 2012(3): 344-345.
	Environmental changes result in signaling events in cell membranes. To develop the means to understand these events at the molecular level, it is essential to become familiar with the stochastic nature of signaling molecules in living cells. Using total internal reflection fluorescent microscopy (TIRFM), these signaling events can be directly observed at the single-molecule level. This protocol describes the preparation of chemotactically competent Dictyostelium cells. These cells are highly sensitive to chemoattractant stimulation and can be used to visualize single molecules with TIRFM.

Matsuoka, S., et al. (2012). "Preparation of an imaging chamber for visualizing single molecules in living Dictyostelium cells." Cold Spring Harb Protoc 2012(3): 346-348.
	Environmental changes result in signaling events at cell membranes. To develop the means to understand these events at the molecular level, it is essential to become familiar with the stochastic nature of signaling molecules in living cells. Using total internal reflection fluorescent microscopy (TIRFM), these signaling events can be directly observed at the single-molecule level. This protocol describes the preparation of an imaging chamber to visualize single molecules in living Dictyostelium cells, which are highly sensitive to chemoattractant stimulation. It also describes treatment of the cells to allow visualization. Chemotactically competent cells are treated with the desired chemical, and the cell suspension is delivered onto coverslips and then overlaid with a thin agarose sheet in preparation for imaging. The cells are typically treated with a fluorescently labeled stimulant or inhibitor. Alternatively, the cells can be stimulated with photoreactive chemicals by using caged compounds. A caged compound is photoactivatable by irradiation with ultraviolet (UV) light, which cleaves a linker conjugating a caging moiety and a chemical. Thus, at a desired moment during recording of the single-molecule images, the concentration of the chemicals can be increased by photolysis of the caged compounds included in the buffer.

Matsuoka, S., et al. (2012). "Visualizing single molecules in living Dictyostelium cells using total internal reflection fluorescent microscopy (TIRFM)." Cold Spring Harb Protoc 2012(3): 349-351.
	Environmental changes result in signaling events at cell membranes. To develop the means to understand these events at the molecular level, it is essential to become familiar with the stochastic nature of signaling molecules in living cells. Using total internal reflection fluorescent microscopy (TIRFM), these signaling events can be directly observed at the single-molecule level. This protocol describes the procedure used for objective-type TIRFM to visualize single fluorescent molecules in living Dictyostelium cells, which are highly sensitive to chemoattractant stimulation. This method can also be applied to other cell types.

Martinez-Costa, O. H., et al. (2012). "Distinct functional roles of the two terminal halves of eukaryotic phosphofructokinase." Biochem J 445(2): 213-218.
	Eukaryotic PFK (phosphofructokinase), a key regulatory enzyme in glycolysis, has homologous N- and C-terminal domains thought to result from duplication, fusion and divergence of an ancestral prokaryotic gene. It has been suggested that both the active site and the Fru-2,6-P2 (fructose 2,6-bisphosphate) allosteric site are formed by opposing N- and C-termini of subunits orientated antiparallel in a dimer. In contrast, we show in the present study that in fact the N-terminal halves form the active site, since expression of the N-terminal half of the enzymes from Dictyostelium discoideum and human muscle in PFK-deficient yeast restored growth on glucose. However, the N-terminus alone was not stable in vitro. The C-terminus is not catalytic, but is needed for stability of the enzyme, as is the connecting peptide that normally joins the two domains (here included in the N-terminus). Co-expression of homologous, but not heterologous, N- and C-termini yielded stable fully active enzymes in vitro with sizes and kinetic properties similar to those of the wild-type tetrameric enzymes. This indicates that the separately translated domains can fold sufficiently well to bind to each other, that such binding of complementary domains is stable and that the alignment is sufficiently accurate and tight as to preserve metabolite binding sites and allosteric interactions.

Mancilla-Herrera, I., et al. (2012). "A Toll/IL-1R/resistance domain-containing thioredoxin regulates phagocytosis in Entamoeba histolytica." Parasit Vectors 5: 224.
	BACKGROUND: Entamoeba histolytica is a protozoan parasite that infects humans and causes amebiasis affecting developing countries. Phagocytosis of epithelial cells, erythrocytes, leucocytes, and commensal microbiota bacteria is a major pathogenic mechanism used by this parasite. A Toll/IL-1R/Resistance (TIR) domain-containing protein is required in phagocytosis in the social ameba Dictyostelium discoideum, an ameba closely related to Entamoeba histolytica in phylogeny. In insects and vertebrates, TIR domain-containing proteins regulate phagocytic and cell activation. Therefore, we investigated whether E. histolytica expresses TIR domain-containing molecules that may be involved in the phagocytosis of erythrocytes and bacteria. METHODS: Using in silico analysis we explored in Entamoeba histolytica databases for TIR domain containing sequences. After silencing TIR domain containing sequences in trophozoites by siRNA we evaluated phagocytosis of erythrocytes and bacteria. RESULTS: We identified an E. histolytica thioredoxin containing a TIR-like domain. The secondary and tertiary structure of this sequence exhibited structural similarity to TIR domain family. Thioredoxin transcripts silenced in E. histolytica trophozoites decreased erythrocytes and E. coli phagocytosis. CONCLUSION: TIR domain-containing thioredoxin of E. histolytica could be an important element in erythrocytes and bacteria phagocytosis.

Macro, L., et al. (2012). "Dynamics of clathrin-mediated endocytosis and its requirement for organelle biogenesis in Dictyostelium." J Cell Sci 125(Pt 23): 5721-5732.
	The protein clathrin mediates one of the major pathways of endocytosis from the extracellular milieu and plasma membrane. In single-cell eukaryotes, such as Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the gene encoding clathrin is not an essential gene, raising the question of whether clathrin conveys specific advantages for multicellularity. Furthermore, in contrast to mammalian cells, endocytosis in S. cerevisiae is not dependent on either clathrin or adaptor protein 2 (AP2), an endocytic adaptor molecule. In this study, we investigated the requirement for components of clathrin-mediated endocytosis (CME) in another unicellular organism, the amoeba Dictyostelium. We identified a heterotetrameric AP2 complex in Dictyostelium that is similar to that which is found in higher eukaryotes. By simultaneously imaging fluorescently tagged clathrin and AP2, we found that, similar to higher eukaryotes, these proteins colocalized to membrane puncta that move into the cell together. In addition, the contractile vacuole marker protein, dajumin-green fluorescent protein (GFP), is trafficked via the cell membrane and internalized by CME in a clathrin-dependent, AP2-independent mechanism. This pathway is distinct from other endocytic mechanisms in Dictyostelium. Our finding that CME is required for the internalization of contractile vacuole proteins from the cell membrane explains the contractile vacuole biogenesis defect in Dictyostelium cells lacking clathrin. Our results also suggest that the machinery for CME and its role in organelle maintenance appeared early during eukaryotic evolution. We hypothesize that dependence of endocytosis on specific components of the CME pathway evolved later, as demonstrated by internalization independent of AP2 function.

Lusche, D. F., et al. (2012). "The IplA Ca2+ channel of Dictyostelium discoideum is necessary for chemotaxis mediated through Ca2+, but not through cAMP, and has a fundamental role in natural aggregation." J Cell Sci 125(Pt 7): 1770-1783.
	During aggregation of Dictyostelium discoideum, nondissipating, symmetrical, outwardly moving waves of cAMP direct cells towards aggregation centers. It has been assumed that the spatial and temporal characteristics of the front and back of each cAMP wave regulate both chemokinesis and chemotaxis. However, during the period preceding aggregation, cells acquire not only the capacity to chemotax in a spatial gradient of cAMP, but also in a spatial gradient of Ca(2+). The null mutant of the putative IplA Ca(2+) channel gene, iplA(-), undergoes normal chemotaxis in spatial gradients of cAMP and normal chemokinetic responses to increasing temporal gradients of cAMP, both generated in vitro. However, iplA(-) cells lose the capacity to undergo chemotaxis in response to a spatial gradient of Ca(2+), suggesting that IplA is either the Ca(2+) chemotaxis receptor or an essential component of the Ca(2+) chemotaxis regulatory pathway. In response to natural chemotactic waves generated by wild-type cells, the chemokinetic response of iplA(-) cells to the temporal dynamics of the cAMP wave is intact, but the capacity to reorient in the direction of the aggregation center at the onset of each wave is lost. These results suggest that transient Ca(2+) gradients formed between cells at the onset of each natural cAMP wave augment reorientation towards the aggregation center. If this hypothesis proves correct, it will provide a more complex contextual framework for interpreting D. discoideum chemotaxis.

Loomis, W. F., et al. (2012). "Innate non-specific cell substratum adhesion." PLoS One 7(8): e42033.
	Adhesion of motile cells to solid surfaces is necessary to transmit forces required for propulsion. Unlike mammalian cells, Dictyostelium cells do not make integrin mediated focal adhesions. Nevertheless, they can move rapidly on both hydrophobic and hydrophilic surfaces. We have found that adhesion to such surfaces can be inhibited by addition of sugars or amino acids to the buffer. Treating whole cells with alphalpha-mannosidase to cleave surface oligosaccharides also reduces adhesion. The results indicate that adhesion of these cells is mediated by van der Waals attraction of their surface glycoproteins to the underlying substratum. Since glycoproteins are prevalent components of the surface of most cells, innate adhesion may be a common cellular property that has been overlooked.

Lobanov, M. Y. and O. V. Galzitskaya (2012). "Occurrence of disordered patterns and homorepeats in eukaryotic and bacterial proteomes." Mol Biosyst 8(1): 327-337.
	Combining the motif discovery and disorder protein segment identification in PDB allows us to create the first and largest library of disordered patterns. At present the library includes 109 disordered patterns. Here we offer a comprehensive analysis of the occurrence of selected disordered patterns and 20 homorepeats of 6 residues long in 123 proteomes. 27 disordered patterns occur sparsely in all considered proteomes, but the patterns of low-complexity-homorepeats-appear more often in eukaryotic than in bacterial proteomes. A comparative analysis of the number of proteins containing homorepeats of 6 residues long and the disordered selected patterns in these proteomes has been performed. The matrices of correlation coefficients between numbers of proteins where at least once a homorepeat of six residues long for each of 20 types of amino acid residues and 109 disordered patterns from the library appears in 9 kingdoms of eukaryota and 5 phyla of bacteria have been calculated. As a rule, the correlation coefficients are higher inside the considered kingdom than between them. The largest fraction of homorepeats of 6 residues belongs to Amoebozoa proteomes (D. discoideum), 46%. Moreover, the longest uninterrupted repeats belong to S306 from D. discoideum (Amoebozoa). Homorepeats of some amino acids occur more frequently than others and the type of homorepeats varies across different proteomes, . For example, E6 appears most frequent for all considered proteomes for Chordata, Q6 for Arthropoda, S6 for Nematoda. The averaged occurrence of multiple long runs of 6 amino acids in a decreasing order for 97 eukaryotic proteomes is as follows: Q6, S6, A6, G6, N6, E6, P6, T6, D6, K6, L6, H6, R6, F6, V6, I6, Y6, C6, M6, W6, and for 26 bacterial proteomes it is A6, G6, P6, and the others occur seldom. This suggests that such short similar motifs are responsible for common functions for nonhomologous, unrelated proteins from different organisms.

Lo Sardo, V., et al. (2012). "An evolutionary recent neuroepithelial cell adhesion function of huntingtin implicates ADAM10-Ncadherin." Nat Neurosci 15(5): 713-721.
	The Huntington's disease gene product, huntingtin, is indispensable for neural tube formation, but its role is obscure. We studied neurulation in htt-null embryonic stem cells and htt-morpholino zebrafish embryos and found a previously unknown, evolutionarily recent function for this ancient protein. We found that htt was essential for homotypic interactions between neuroepithelial cells; it permitted neurulation and rosette formation by regulating metalloprotease ADAM10 activity and Ncadherin cleavage. This function was embedded in the N terminus of htt and was phenocopied by treatment of htt knockdown zebrafish with an ADAM10 inhibitor. Notably, in htt-null cells, reversion of the rosetteless phenotype occurred only with expression of evolutionarily recent htt heterologues from deuterostome organisms. Conversely, all of the heterologues that we tested, including htt from Drosophila melanogaster and Dictyostelium discoideum, exhibited anti-apoptotic activity. Thus, anti-apoptosis may have been one of htt's ancestral function(s), but, in deuterostomes, htt evolved to acquire a unique regulatory activity for controlling neural adhesion via ADAM10-Ncadherin, with implications for brain evolution and development.

Linkner, J., et al. (2012). "Highly effective removal of floxed Blasticidin S resistance cassettes from Dictyostelium discoideum mutants by extrachromosomal expression of Cre." Eur J Cell Biol 91(2): 156-160.
	The inactivation of proteins in cells is inevitable to study their physiological role in various cellular processes. In contrast to strategies to alter the amount of active proteins in cells, only a gene knockout guarantees complete removal of the protein of interest. For Dictyostelium discoideum cells, the gene replacement construct typically consists of a Blasticidin S resistance (Bsr) cassette flanked by fragments of the target gene to allow insertion by homologous recombination. More advanced knockout constructs additionally carry loxP sites on both sides of the Bsr cassettes for subsequent removal of the selection marker by transient expression of Cre recombinase, thus allowing generation of multiple knockouts using just a single selection marker. However, due to its design, the available neomycin selection-based Cre expression plasmid occasionally tends to integrate into the genome and also yield only a moderate number of transfectants in liquid media. In some cases, for instance in SCAR-null cells, it was not possible to remove the Bsr cassette without stable integration of the Cre expression vector into the genome. To circumvent these difficulties we designed the extrachromosomal Cre-recombinase expression vector pTX-NLS-Cre. We verified the greatly improved efficacy of this novel Cre-loxP approach by removal of the Bsr cassette in five different cell lines including the SCAR-null mutant. As a consequence, this vector will be a highly valuable means for the rapid generation of single or multiple mutants remaining sensitive to the most reliable selection markers Blasticidin S and neomycin.

Lima, W. C., et al. (2012). "Mucolipin controls lysosome exocytosis in Dictyostelium." J Cell Sci 125(Pt 9): 2315-2322.
	Mucolipidosis type IV is a poorly understood lysosomal storage disease caused by alterations in the mucolipin lysosomal Ca(2+) channel. In this study, we generated mucolipin-knockout Dictyostelium cells, and observed that lysosome exocytosis was markedly increased in these cells compared with wild-type cells. In addition, mucolipin-knockout cells were more resistant to Ca(2+) deprivation, and the Ca(2+) concentration in their secretory lysosomes was decreased, suggesting that mucolipin transfers Ca(2+) ions from the cytosol to the lumen of secretory lysosomes. We speculate that mucolipin attenuates the fusogenic effect of local cytosolic increases in Ca(2+) by dissipating them into the lumen of lysosomal compartments.

Leo, M., et al. (2012). "Rules of engagement: centrosome-nuclear connections in a closed mitotic system." Biol Open 1(11): 1111-1117.
	The assembly of a functional mitotic spindle is essential for cell reproduction and requires a precise coordination between the nuclear cycle and the centrosome. This coordination is particularly prominent in organisms that undergo closed mitosis where centrosomes must not only respond to temporal signals, but also to spatial considerations, e.g. switching from the production of cytoplasmic microtubule arrays to the generation of dynamic intra-nuclear microtubules required for spindle assembly. We utilize a gene knockout of Kif9, a Dictyostelium discoideum Kin-I kinesin, to destabilize the physical association between centrosomes and the nuclear envelope. This approach presents a unique opportunity to reveal temporal and spatial components in the regulation of centrosomal activities in a closed-mitosis organism. Here we report that centrosome-nuclear engagement is not required for the entry into mitosis. Although detached centrosomes can duplicate in the cytoplasm, neither they nor nuclei alone can produce spindle-like microtubule arrays. However, the physical association of centrosomes and the nuclear envelope is required to progress through mitosis beyond prometaphase.

Lee, M. R. and T. J. Jeon (2012). "Cell migration: regulation of cytoskeleton by Rap1 in Dictyostelium discoideum." J Microbiol 50(4): 555-561.
	Cell movement involves a coordinated regulation of the cytoskeleton, F-actin-mediated protrusions at the front and myosin-mediated contraction of the posterior of a cell. The small GTPase Rap1 functions as a key regulator in the spatial and temporal control of cytoskeleton reorganization for cell migration. This review outlines the establishment of cell polarity by differential localizations of the cytoskeleton and discusses the spatial and temporal regulation of cytoskeleton reorganization via the Rap1 signaling pathway during chemotaxis with a focus on recent advances in the study of chemotaxis using a simple eukaryotic model organism, Dictyostelium discoideum.

Lee, J., et al. (2012). "Video-rate confocal microscopy for single-molecule imaging in live cells and superresolution fluorescence imaging." Biophys J 103(8): 1691-1697.
	There is no confocal microscope optimized for single-molecule imaging in live cells and superresolution fluorescence imaging. By combining the swiftness of the line-scanning method and the high sensitivity of wide-field detection, we have developed a, to our knowledge, novel confocal fluorescence microscope with a good optical-sectioning capability (1.0 mum), fast frame rates (<33 fps), and superior fluorescence detection efficiency. Full compatibility of the microscope with conventional cell-imaging techniques allowed us to do single-molecule imaging with a great ease at arbitrary depths of live cells. With the new microscope, we monitored diffusion motion of fluorescently labeled cAMP receptors of Dictyostelium discoideum at both the basal and apical surfaces and obtained superresolution fluorescence images of microtubules of COS-7 cells at depths in the range 0-85 mum from the surface of a coverglass.

Lamrabet, O., et al. (2012). "The genealogic tree of mycobacteria reveals a long-standing sympatric life into free-living protozoa." PLoS One 7(4): e34754.
	Free-living protozoa allow horizontal gene transfer with and between the microorganisms that they host. They host mycobacteria for which the sources of transferred genes remain unknown. Using BLASTp, we searched within the genomes of 15 mycobacteria for homologous genes with 34 amoeba-resistant bacteria and the free-living protozoa Dictyostelium discoideum. Subsequent phylogenetic analysis of these sequences revealed that eight mycobacterial open-reading frames (ORFs) were probably acquired via horizontal transfer from beta- and gamma-Proteobacteria and from Firmicutes, but the transfer histories could not be reliably established in details. One further ORF encoding a pyridine nucleotide disulfide oxidoreductase (pyr-redox) placed non-tuberculous mycobacteria in a clade with Legionella spp., Francisella spp., Coxiella burnetii, the ciliate Tetrahymena thermophila and D. discoideum with a high reliability. Co-culturing Mycobacterium avium and Legionella pneumophila with the amoeba Acanthamoeba polyphaga demonstrated that these two bacteria could live together in amoebae for five days, indicating the biological relevance of intra-amoebal transfer of the pyr-redox gene. In conclusion, the results of this study support the hypothesis that protists can serve as a source and a place for gene transfer in mycobacteria.

Kuwayama, H. (2012). "Arachidonic acid enhances caffeine-induced cell death via caspase-independent cell death." Sci Rep 2: 577.
	Caffeine is a globally consumed psychostimulant but can be fatal to cells at overdose exposures. Although caspase-dependent apoptosis plays a role in caffeine-induced cell death, the responsible intracellular signalling cascade remains incompletely understood. The cellular slime mould, Dictyostelium discoideum, does not possess caspase-dependent apoptotic machinery. Here, we observed that ablation of D. discoideumplaA, which encodes a phospholipase A2 (PLA(2)) homolog, leads to a decreased rate of cell death under high caffeine concentrations and to enhanced cell death with the addition of arachidonic acid. Moreover, the inhibition of PLA(2) activity lead to a recovery of the survival rate in caspase-inhibited Hela cervical carcinoma cells under high caffeine concentrations, indicating that caffeine-induced cell death is enhanced via PLA(2)-dependent signalling. Our results indicate that arachidonic acid may be a general second messenger that negatively regulates caffeine tolerance via a caspase-independent cell death cascade, which leads to multiple effects in eukaryotic cells.

Kuhnert, O., et al. (2012). "CP55, a novel key component of centrosomal organization in Dictyostelium." Cell Mol Life Sci 69(21): 3651-3664.
	Dictyostelium centrosomes consist of a layered core structure surrounded by a microtubule-nucleating corona. At the G2/M transition, the corona dissociates and the core structure duplicates, yielding two spindle pole bodies. Finally, in telophase, the spindle poles mature into two new, complete centrosomes. CP55 was identified in a centrosomal proteome analysis. It is a component of the centrosomal core structure, and persists at the centrosome throughout the entire cell cycle. FRAP experiments revealed that during interphase the majority of centrosomal GFP-CP55 is immobile, which indicates a structural task of CP55 at the centrosome. The CP55null mutant is characterized by increased ploidy, a less structured, slightly enlarged corona, and by supernumerary, cytosolic MTOCs, containing only corona proteins and lacking a core structure. Live cell imaging showed that supernumerary MTOCs arise in telophase. Lack of CP55 also caused premature recruitment of the corona organizer CP148 to mitotic spindle poles, already in metaphase instead of telophase. Forces transmitted through astral microtubules may expel prematurely acquired or loosely attached corona fragments into the cytosol, where they act as independent MTOCs. CP55null cells were also impaired in growth, most probably due to difficulties in centrosome splitting during prophase. Furthermore, although they were still capable of phagocytosis, they appeared unable to utilize phagocytosed nutrients. This inability may be attributed to their partially disorganized Golgi apparatus.

Kuhnert, O., et al. (2012). "Functional characterization of CP148, a novel key component for centrosome integrity in Dictyostelium." Cell Mol Life Sci.
	The Dictyostelium centrosome consists of a layered core structure surrounded by a microtubule-nucleating corona. A tight linkage through the nuclear envelope connects the cytosolic centrosome with the clustered centromeres within the nuclear matrix. At G2/M the corona dissociates, and the core structure duplicates, yielding two spindle poles. CP148 is a novel coiled coil protein of the centrosomal corona. GFP-CP148 exhibited cell cycle-dependent presence and absence at the centrosome, which correlates with dissociation of the corona in prophase and its reformation in late telophase. During telophase, GFP-CP148 formed cytosolic foci, which coalesced and joined the centrosome. This explains the hypertrophic appearance of the corona upon strong overexpression of GFP-CP148. Depletion of CP148 by RNAi caused virtual loss of the corona and disorganization of interphase microtubules. Surprisingly, formation of the mitotic spindle and astral microtubules was unaffected. Thus, microtubule nucleation complexes associate with centrosomal core components through different means during interphase and mitosis. Furthermore, CP148 RNAi caused dispersal of centromeres and altered Sun1 distribution at the nuclear envelope, suggesting a role of CP148 in the linkage between centrosomes and centromeres. Taken together, CP148 is an essential factor for the formation of the centrosomal corona, which in turn is required for centrosome/centromere linkage.

Kruger, A., et al. (2012). "Characterization of NE81, the first lamin-like nucleoskeleton protein in a unicellular organism." Mol Biol Cell 23(2): 360-370.
	Lamins build the nuclear lamina and are required for chromatin organization, gene expression, cell cycle progression, and mechanical stabilization. Despite these universal functions, lamins have so far been found only in metazoans. We have identified protein NE81 in Dictyostelium, which has properties that justify its denomination as a lamin-like protein in a lower eukaryote. This is based on its primary structure, subcellular localization, and regulation during mitosis, and its requirement of the C-terminal CaaX box as a posttranslational processing signal for proper localization. Our knockout and overexpression mutants revealed an important role for NE81 in nuclear integrity, chromatin organization, and mechanical stability of cells. All our results are in agreement with a role for NE81 in formation of a nuclear lamina. This function is corroborated by localization of Dictyostelium NE81 at the nuclear envelope in human cells. The discovery of a lamin-like protein in a unicellular organism is not only intriguing in light of evolution, it may also provide a simple experimental platform for studies of the molecular basis of laminopathies.

Kortholt, A., et al. (2012). "Multiple Regulatory Mechanisms for the Dictyostelium Roco Protein GbpC." J Biol Chem 287(4): 2749-2758.
	GbpC is a multidomain Roco protein in Dictyostelium, involved in transduction of intracellular cGMP that is produced by chemotactic signals. We have shown previously that cGMP binding to GbpC induces an intramolecular signaling cascade by activating subsequently the GEF, Ras, and kinase domains. In this study, we report on the cellular localization of GbpC. In resting cells, the protein is present in the cytoplasm, but GbpC rapidly translocates to the cell boundary upon stimulation with the chemoattractant cAMP. Also, during the formation of cell-cell streams and osmotic shock, the protein localizes toward the plasma membrane and actin cytoskeleton. The translocation upon cAMP stimulation occurs downstream of heterotrimeric G proteins but is independent of guanylyl cyclases and the previously identified cGMP-induced intramolecular signaling cascade in GbpC. Mutations in the GRAM domain of GbpC lead to disturbed membrane association and inactivation of GbpC function during chemotaxis in vivo. Furthermore, we show that the GRAM domain itself associates with cellular membranes and binds various phospholipids in vitro. Together, the results show that GbpC receives multiple input signals that are both required for functional activity in vivo. cAMP-stimulation induces a cGMP-dependent signaling cascade, leading to activation of kinase activity, and, independently, cAMP induces a GRAM-dependent translocation of GbpC toward the plasma membrane and cell cortex, where it may locally phosphorylate effector proteins, which are needed for proper biological activity.

Kon, T., et al. (2012). "The 2.8 A crystal structure of the dynein motor domain." Nature 484(7394): 345-350.
	Dyneins are microtubule-based AAA(+) motor complexes that power ciliary beating, cell division, cell migration and intracellular transport. Here we report the most complete structure obtained so far, to our knowledge, of the 380-kDa motor domain of Dictyostelium discoideum cytoplasmic dynein at 2.8 A resolution; the data are reliable enough to discuss the structure and mechanism at the level of individual amino acid residues. Features that can be clearly visualized at this resolution include the coordination of ADP in each of four distinct nucleotide-binding sites in the ring-shaped AAA(+) ATPase unit, a newly identified interaction interface between the ring and mechanical linker, and junctional structures between the ring and microtubule-binding stalk, all of which should be critical for the mechanism of dynein motility. We also identify a long-range allosteric communication pathway between the primary ATPase and the microtubule-binding sites. Our work provides a framework for understanding the mechanism of dynein-based motility.

Klionsky, D. J., et al. (2012). "Guidelines for the use and interpretation of assays for monitoring autophagy." Autophagy 8(4): 445-544.
	In 2008 we published the first set of guidelines for standardizing research in autophagy. Since then, research on this topic has continued to accelerate, and many new scientists have entered the field. Our knowledge base and relevant new technologies have also been expanding. Accordingly, it is important to update these guidelines for monitoring autophagy in different organisms. Various reviews have described the range of assays that have been used for this purpose. Nevertheless, there continues to be confusion regarding acceptable methods to measure autophagy, especially in multicellular eukaryotes. A key point that needs to be emphasized is that there is a difference between measurements that monitor the numbers or volume of autophagic elements (e.g., autophagosomes or autolysosomes) at any stage of the autophagic process vs. those that measure flux through the autophagy pathway (i.e., the complete process); thus, a block in macroautophagy that results in autophagosome accumulation needs to be differentiated from stimuli that result in increased autophagic activity, defined as increased autophagy induction coupled with increased delivery to, and degradation within, lysosomes (in most higher eukaryotes and some protists such as Dictyostelium) or the vacuole (in plants and fungi). In other words, it is especially important that investigators new to the field understand that the appearance of more autophagosomes does not necessarily equate with more autophagy. In fact, in many cases, autophagosomes accumulate because of a block in trafficking to lysosomes without a concomitant change in autophagosome biogenesis, whereas an increase in autolysosomes may reflect a reduction in degradative activity. Here, we present a set of guidelines for the selection and interpretation of methods for use by investigators who aim to examine macroautophagy and related processes, as well as for reviewers who need to provide realistic and reasonable critiques of papers that are focused on these processes. These guidelines are not meant to be a formulaic set of rules, because the appropriate assays depend in part on the question being asked and the system being used. In addition, we emphasize that no individual assay is guaranteed to be the most appropriate one in every situation, and we strongly recommend the use of multiple assays to monitor autophagy. In these guidelines, we consider these various methods of assessing autophagy and what information can, or cannot, be obtained from them. Finally, by discussing the merits and limits of particular autophagy assays, we hope to encourage technical innovation in the field.

King, J. S. (2012). "Autophagy across the eukaryotes: is S. cerevisiae the odd one out?" Autophagy 8(7): 1159-1162.
	Autophagy is conserved throughout the eukaryotes and for many years, work in Saccharomyces cerevisiae has been at the forefront of autophagy research. However as our knowledge of the autophagic machinery has increased, differences between S. cerevisiae and mammalian cells have become apparent. Recent work in other organisms, such as the amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum, indicate an autophagic pathway much more similar to mammalian cells than S. cerevisiae, despite its earlier evolutionary divergence. S. cerevisiae therefore appear to have significantly specialized, and the autophagic pathway in mammals is much more ancient than previously appreciated, which has implications for how we interpret data from organisms throughout the eukaryotic tree.

Kim, J., et al. (2012). "Light-Directed Migration of Slugs in Microfabricated Confinements." Sens Actuators A Phys 188: 312-319.
	This paper investigates the light-driven migration of the multi-cellular microorganism Dictyostelium discoideum as a potential bio-actuation mechanism in microsystems. As a platform for slug migration we use microscale confinements, which consist of intersecting microchannels fabricated from solidified agar-water solution. The agar surface provides necessary moisture to the slugs during the experiment while remaining sufficiently stiff to allow effective slug migration. The movements of the slugs in the microchannels are driven and guided by phototaxis via controlling light transmitted through optical fibers. The microchannels impose geometrical confinements on the migrating slugs, improving the spatial precision of the migration. We demonstrate that slugs that form in a microchamber can be driven to migrate through the microchannels, as well as steered to a particular direction at microchannel intersections. Our experimental results indicate that slug movements can be more effectively controlled in microchannels, and potentially useful for bio-actuation applications.

Kim, H. L., et al. (2012). "Dictyostelium phenylalanine hydroxylase is activated by its substrate phenylalanine." FEBS Lett 586(20): 3596-3600.
	We have studied the regulatory function of Dictyostelium discoideum Ax2 phenylalanine hydroxylase (dicPAH) via characterization of domain structures. Including the full-length protein, partial proteins truncated in regulatory, tetramerization, or both, were prepared from Escherichia coli as his-tag proteins and examined for oligomeric status and catalytic parameters for phenylalanine. The proteins were also expressed extrachromosomally in the dicPAH knockout strain to examine their in vivo compatibility. The results suggest that phenylalanine activates dicPAH, which is functional in vivo as a tetramer, although cooperativity was not observed. In addition, the results of kinetic study suggest that the regulatory domain of dicPAH may play a role different from that of the domain in mammalian PAH.

Kepiro, M., et al. (2012). "Azidoblebbistatin, a photoreactive myosin inhibitor." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 109(24): 9402-9407.
	Photoreactive compounds are important tools in life sciences that allow precisely timed covalent crosslinking of ligands and targets. Using a unique technique we have synthesized azidoblebbistatin, which is a derivative of blebbistatin, the most widely used myosin inhibitor. Without UV irradiation azidoblebbistatin exhibits identical inhibitory properties to those of blebbistatin. Using UV irradiation, azidoblebbistatin can be covalently crosslinked to myosin, which greatly enhances its in vitro and in vivo effectiveness. Photo-crosslinking also eliminates limitations associated with the relatively low myosin affinity and water solubility of blebbistatin. The wavelength used for photo-crosslinking is not toxic for cells and tissues, which confers a great advantage in in vivo tests. Because the crosslink results in an irreversible association of the inhibitor to myosin and the irradiation eliminates the residual activity of unbound inhibitor molecules, azidoblebbistatin has a great potential to become a highly effective tool in both structural studies of actomyosin contractility and the investigation of cellular and physiological functions of myosin II. We used azidoblebbistatin to identify previously unknown low-affinity targets of the inhibitor (EC(50) >/= 50 muM) in Dictyostelium discoideum, while the strongest interactant was found to be myosin II (EC(50) = 5 muM). Our results demonstrate that azidoblebbistatin, and potentially other azidated drugs, can become highly useful tools for the identification of strong- and weak-binding cellular targets and the determination of the apparent binding affinities in in vivo conditions.

Kelsey, J. S., et al. (2012). "Ndm, a coiled-coil domain protein that suppresses macropinocytosis and has effects on cell migration." Mol Biol Cell 23(17): 3407-3419.
	The ampA gene has a role in cell migration in Dictyostelium discoideum. Cells overexpressing AmpA show an increase in cell migration, forming large plaques on bacterial lawns. A second-site suppressor of this ampA-overexpressing phenotype identified a previously uncharacterized gene, ndm, which is described here. The Ndm protein is predicted to contain a coiled-coil BAR-like domain-a domain involved in endocytosis and membrane bending. ndm-knockout and Ndm-monomeric red fluorescent protein-expressing cell lines were used to establish a role for ndm in suppressing endocytosis. An increase in the rate of endocytosis and in the number of endosomes was detected in ndm(-) cells. During migration ndm(-) cells formed numerous endocytic cups instead of the broad lamellipodia structure characteristic of moving cells. A second lamellipodia-based function-cell spreading-was also defective in the ndm(-) cells. The increase in endocytosis and the defect in lamellipodia formation were associated with reduced chemotaxis in ndm(-) cells. Immunofluorescence results and glutathione S-transferase pull-down assays revealed an association of Ndm with coronin and F-actin. The results establish ndm as a gene important in regulating the balance between formation of endocytic cups and lamellipodia structures.

Kelsey, J. S., et al. (2012). "Evidence of an evolutionarily conserved LMBR1 domain-containing protein that associates with endocytic cups and plays a role in cell migration in dictyostelium discoideum." Eukaryot Cell 11(4): 401-416.
	The ampA gene plays a role in Dictyostelium discoideum cell migration. Loss of ampA function results in reduced ability of growing cells to migrate to folic acid and causes small plaques on bacterial lawns, while overexpression of AmpA results in a rapid-migration phenotype and correspondingly larger plaques than seen with wild-type cells. To help understand how the ampA gene functions, second-site suppressors were created by restriction enzyme-mediated integration (REMI) mutagenesis. These mutants were selected for their ability to reduce the large plaque size of the AmpA overexpresser strain. The lmbd2B gene was identified as a suppressor of an AmpA-overexpressing strain. The lmbd2B gene product belongs to the evolutionarily conserved LMBR1 protein family, some of whose known members are endocytic receptors associated with human diseases, such as anemia. In order to understand lmbd2B function, mRFP fusion proteins were created and lmbd2B knockout cell lines were established. Our findings indicate that the LMBD2B protein is found associated with endocytic cups. It colocalizes with proteins that play key roles in endocytic events and is localized to ruffles on the dorsal surfaces of growing cells. Vegetative lmbd2B-null cells display defects in cell migration. These cells have difficulty sensing the chemoattractant folic acid, as indicated by a decrease in their chemotactic index. lmbd2B-null cells also appear to have difficulty establishing a front/back orientation to facilitate migration. A role for lmbd2B in development is also suggested. Our research gives insight into the function of a previously uncharacterized branch of the LMBR1 family of proteins. We provide evidence of an LMBR1 family plasma membrane protein that associates with endocytic cups and plays a role in chemotaxis.

Kee, Y. S., et al. (2012). "A mechanosensory system governs myosin II accumulation in dividing cells." Mol Biol Cell 23(8): 1510-1523.
	The mitotic spindle is generally considered the initiator of furrow ingression. However, recent studies suggest that furrows can form without spindles, particularly during asymmetric cell division. In Dictyostelium, the mechanoenzyme myosin II and the actin cross-linker cortexillin I form a mechanosensor that responds to mechanical stress, which could account for spindle-independent contractile protein recruitment. Here we show that the regulatory and contractility network composed of myosin II, cortexillin I, IQGAP2, kinesin-6 (kif12), and inner centromeric protein (INCENP) is a mechanical stress-responsive system. Myosin II and cortexillin I form the core mechanosensor, and mechanotransduction is mediated by IQGAP2 to kif12 and INCENP. In addition, IQGAP2 is antagonized by IQGAP1 to modulate the mechanoresponsiveness of the system, suggesting a possible mechanism for discriminating between mechanical and biochemical inputs. Furthermore, IQGAP2 is important for maintaining spindle morphology and kif12 and myosin II cleavage furrow recruitment. Cortexillin II is not directly involved in myosin II mechanosensitive accumulation, but without cortexillin I, cortexillin II's role in membrane-cortex attachment is revealed. Finally, the mitotic spindle is dispensable for the system. Overall, this mechanosensory system is structured like a control system characterized by mechanochemical feedback loops that regulate myosin II localization at sites of mechanical stress and the cleavage furrow.

Kawabe, Y., et al. (2012). "Evolution of self-organisation in Dictyostelia by adaptation of a non-selective phosphodiesterase and a matrix component for regulated cAMP degradation." Development 139(7): 1336-1345.
	Dictyostelium discoideum amoebas coordinate aggregation and morphogenesis by secreting cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) pulses that propagate as waves through fields of cells and multicellular structures. To retrace how this mechanism for self-organisation evolved, we studied the origin of the cAMP phosphodiesterase PdsA and its inhibitor PdiA, which are essential for cAMP wave propagation. D. discoideum and other species that use cAMP to aggregate reside in group 4 of the four major groups of Dictyostelia. We found that groups 1-3 express a non-specific, low affinity orthologue of PdsA, which gained cAMP selectivity and increased 200-fold in affinity in group 4. A low affinity group 3 PdsA only partially restored aggregation of a D. discoideum pdsA-null mutant, but was more effective at restoring fruiting body morphogenesis. Deletion of a group 2 PdsA gene resulted in disruption of fruiting body morphogenesis, but left aggregation unaffected. Together, these results show that groups 1-3 use a low affinity PdsA for morphogenesis that is neither suited nor required for aggregation. PdiA belongs to a family of matrix proteins that are present in all Dictyostelia and consist mainly of cysteine-rich repeats. However, in its current form with several extensively modified repeats, PdiA is only present in group 4. PdiA is essential for initiating spiral cAMP waves, which, by organising large territories, generate the large fruiting structures that characterise group 4. We conclude that efficient cAMP-mediated aggregation in group 4 evolved by recruitment and adaptation of a non-selective phosphodiesterase and a matrix component into a system for regulated cAMP degradation.

Kaufmann, S., et al. (2012). "Functional expression of Ca(2)(+) dependent mammalian transmembrane gap junction protein Cx43 in slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem Biophys Res Commun 419(2): 165-169.
	In this paper, we expressed murine gap junction protein Cx43 in Dictyostelium discoideum by introducing the specific vector pDXA. In the first step, the successful expression of Cx43 and Cx43-eGFP was verified by (a) Western blot (anti-Cx43, anti-GFP), (b) fluorescence microscopy (eGFP-Cx43 co-expression, Cx43 immunostaining), and (c) flow cytometry analysis (eGFP-Cx43 co-expression). Although the fluorescence signals from cells expressing Cx43-eGFP detected by fluorescence microscopy seem relatively low, analysis by flow cytometry demonstrated that more than 60% of cells expressed Cx43-eGFP. In order to evaluate the function of expressed Cx43 in D. discoideum, we examined the hemi-channel function of Cx43. In this series of experiments, the passive uptake of carboxyfluorescein was monitored using flow cytometric analysis. A significant number of the transfected cells showed a prominent dye uptake in the absence of Ca(2+). The dye uptake by transfected cells in the presence of Ca(2+) was even lower than the non-specific dye uptake by non-transformed Ax3 orf+ cells, confirming that Cx43 expressed in D. discoideum retains its Ca(2+)-dependent, specific gating function. The expression of gap junction proteins expressed in slime molds opens a possibility to the biological significance of intercellular communications in development and maintenance of multicellular organisms.

Journet, A., et al. (2012). "Investigating the macropinocytic proteome of Dictyostelium amoebae by high-resolution mass spectrometry." Proteomics 12(2): 241-245.
	The cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum is a soil-living eukaryote, which feeds on microorganisms engulfed by phagocytosis. Axenic laboratory strains have been produced that are able to use liquid growth medium internalized by macropinocytosis as the source of food. To better define the macropinocytosis process, we established the inventory of proteins associated with this pathway using mass spectrometry-based proteomics. Using a magnetic purification procedure and high-performance LC-MS/MS proteome analysis, a list of 2108 non-redundant proteins was established, of which 24% featured membrane-spanning domains. Bioinformatics analyses indicated that the most abundant proteins were linked to signaling, vesicular trafficking and the cytoskeleton. The present repertoire validates our purification method and paves the way for a future proteomics approach to study the dynamics of macropinocytosis.

Jingushi, K., et al. (2012). "DIF-1 inhibits the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway by inhibiting TCF7L2 expression in colon cancer cell lines." Biochem Pharmacol 83(1): 47-56.
	We previously reported that differentiation-inducing factor-1 (DIF-1), a morphogen in Dictyostelium discoideum, inhibits the proliferation of human cancer cell lines by inducing beta-catenin degradation and suppressing the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway. To determine whether beta-catenin degradation is essential for the effect of DIF-1, we examined the effect of DIF-1 on human colon cancer cell lines (HCT-116, SW-620 and DLD-1), in which the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway is constitutively active. DIF-1 strongly inhibited cell proliferation and arrested the cell cycle in the G(0)/G(1) phase via the suppression of cyclin D1 expression at mRNA and protein levels without reducing beta-catenin protein. TCF-dependent transcriptional activity and cyclin D1 promoter activity were revealed to be inhibited via suppression of transcription factor 7-like 2 (TCF7L2) expression. Luciferase reporter assays and EMSAs using the TCF7L2 promoter fragments indicated that the binding site for the transcription factor early growth response-1 (Egr-1), which is located in the -609 to -601 bp region relative to the start codon in the TCF7L2 promoter, was involved in DIF-1 activity. Moreover, RNAi-mediated depletion of endogenous TCF7L2 resulted in reduced cyclin D1 promoter activity and protein expression, and the overexpression of TCF7L2 overrode the inhibition of the TCF-dependent transcriptional activity and cyclin D1 promoter activity induced by DIF-1. Therefore, DIF-1 seemed to inhibit the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway by suppressing TCF7L2 expression via reduced Egr-1-dependent transcriptional activity in these colon cancer cell lines. Our results provide a novel insight into the mechanisms by which DIF-1 inhibits the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway.

Janjua, H. A., et al. (2012). "Clinical populations of Pseudomonas aeruginosa isolated from acute infections show a wide virulence range partially correlated with population structure and virulence gene expression." Microbiology 158(Pt 8): 2089-2098.
	Pseudomonas aeruginosa is a ubiquitous environmental bacterium responsible for a variety of infections in humans, as well as in animal hosts. While the evolution of virulence in P. aeruginosa strains isolated from chronic lung infection in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients has been extensively studied, the virulence phenotype of P. aeruginosa isolated from other infection types or from the environment is currently not well characterized. Here we report an extensive analysis of the virulence of P. aeruginosa strains isolated from acute infections compared with population structure. Virulence profiles of individual strains were also compared with the expression levels of the rhlR gene, the transcriptional regulator of the rhl quorum-sensing system, and the gene encoding Crc, a global regulator controlling catabolite repression and carbon metabolism. Additionally, the presence/absence of the two mutually exclusive genes, exoU and exoS, encoding effectors of the type III secretion system, was assessed. In order to capture the widest range of genetic variability, a collection of 120 clinical strains was initially characterized by repetitive element-based PCR genotyping, and a selection of 27 strains belonging to different clonal lineages was subsequently tested using three different virulence assays, including two Dictyostelium discoideum assays on different growth media, and a Caenorhabditis elegans fast-killing assay. We show that the parallel application of virulence assays can be used to quantitatively assess this complex, multifactorial phenotypic trait. We observed a wide spectrum of virulence phenotypes ranging from weakly to highly aggressive, indicating that clinical strains isolated from acute infections can present a reduced or altered virulence phenotype. Genotypic associations only partially correlated with virulence profiles and virulence gene expression, whereas the presence of either exoU or exoS was not significantly correlated with virulence. Interestingly, the expression of rhlR showed a significant and positive correlation with the virulence profiles obtained with the three assays, while the expression of crc was either negatively or not correlated with virulence, depending on the assay.

Jaiswal, P., et al. (2012). "Regulation of aggregate size and pattern by adenosine and caffeine in cellular slime molds." BMC Dev Biol 12(1): 5.
	ABSTRACT: BACKGROUND: Multicellularity in cellular slime molds is achieved by aggregation of several hundreds to thousands of cells. In the model slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum, adenosine is known to increase the aggregate size and its antagonist caffeine reduces the aggregate size. However, it is not clear if the actions of adenosine and caffeine are evolutionarily conserved among other slime molds known to use structurally unrelated chemoattractants. We have examined how the known factors affecting aggregate size are modulated by adenosine and caffeine. Result: Adenosine and caffeine induced the formation of large and small aggregates respectively, in evolutionarily distinct slime molds known to use diverse chemoattractants for their aggregation. Due to its genetic tractability, we chose D. discoideum to further investigate the factors affecting aggregate size. The changes in aggregate size are caused by the effect of the compounds on several parameters such as cell number and size, cell-cell adhesion, cAMP signal relay and cell counting mechanisms. While some of the effects of these two compounds are opposite to each other, interestingly, both compounds increase the intracellular glucose level and strengthen cell-cell adhesion. These compounds also inhibit the synthesis of cAMP phosphodiesterase (PdsA), weakening the relay of extracellular cAMP signal. Adenosine as well as caffeine rescue mutants impaired in stream formation (pde4- and pdiA-) and colony size (smlA- and ctnA-) and restore their parental aggregate size. CONCLUSION: Adenosine increased the cell division timings thereby making large number of cells available for aggregation and also it marginally increased the cell size contributing to large aggregate size. Reduced cell division rates and decreased cell size in the presence of caffeine makes the aggregates smaller than controls. Both the compounds altered the speed of the chemotactic amoebae causing a variation in aggregate size. Our data strongly suggests that cytosolic glucose and extracellular cAMP levels are the other major determinants regulating aggregate size and pattern. Importantly, the aggregation process is conserved among different lineages of cellular slime molds despite using unrelated signalling molecules for aggregation.

Jaiswal, P., et al. (2012). "Regulation of multiple tip formation by caffeine in cellular slime molds." BMC Dev Biol 12: 26.
	BACKGROUND: The multicellular slug in Dictyostelium has a single tip that acts as an organising centre patterning the rest of the slug. High adenosine levels at the tip are believed to be responsible for this tip dominance and the adenosine antagonist, caffeine overrides this dominance promoting multiple tip formation. RESULTS: Caffeine induced multiple tip effect is conserved in all the Dictyostelids tested. Two key components of cAMP relay namely, cAMP phosphodiesterase (Pde4) and adenyl cyclase-A (AcaA) levels get reduced during secondary tip formation in Dictyostelium discoideum. Pharmacological inhibition of cAMP phosphodiesterase also resulted in multiple tips. Caffeine reduces cAMP levels by 16.4, 2.34, 4.71 and 6.30 folds, respectively in D. discoideum, D. aureostipes, D. minutum and Polysphondylium pallidum. We propose that altered cAMP levels, perturbed cAMP gradient and impaired signalling may be the critical factors for the origin of multiple tips in other Dictyostelids as well. In the presence of caffeine, slug cell movement gets impaired and restricted. The cell type specific markers, ecmA (prestalk) and pspA (prespore) cells are not equally contributing during additional tip formation. During additional tip emergence, prespore cells transdifferentiate to compensate the loss of prestalk cells. CONCLUSION: Caffeine decreases adenyl cyclase-A (AcaA) levels and as a consequence low cAMP is synthesised altering the gradient. Further if cAMP phosphodiesterase (Pde4) levels go down in the presence of caffeine, the cAMP gradient breaks down. When there is no cAMP gradient, directional movement is inhibited and might favour re-differentiation of prespore to prestalk cells.

Iwashkiw, J. A., et al. (2012). "Identification of a general O-linked protein glycosylation system in Acinetobacter baumannii and its role in virulence and biofilm formation." PLoS Pathog 8(6): e1002758.
	Acinetobacter baumannii is an emerging cause of nosocomial infections. The isolation of strains resistant to multiple antibiotics is increasing at alarming rates. Although A. baumannii is considered as one of the more threatening "superbugs" for our healthcare system, little is known about the factors contributing to its pathogenesis. In this work we show that A. baumannii ATCC 17978 possesses an O-glycosylation system responsible for the glycosylation of multiple proteins. 2D-DIGE and mass spectrometry methods identified seven A. baumannii glycoproteins, of yet unknown function. The glycan structure was determined using a combination of MS and NMR techniques and consists of a branched pentasaccharide containing N-acetylgalactosamine, glucose, galactose, N-acetylglucosamine, and a derivative of glucuronic acid. A glycosylation deficient strain was generated by homologous recombination. This strain did not show any growth defects, but exhibited a severely diminished capacity to generate biofilms. Disruption of the glycosylation machinery also resulted in reduced virulence in two infection models, the amoebae Dictyostelium discoideum and the larvae of the insect Galleria mellonella, and reduced in vivo fitness in a mouse model of peritoneal sepsis. Despite A. baumannii genome plasticity, the O-glycosylation machinery appears to be present in all clinical isolates tested as well as in all of the genomes sequenced. This suggests the existence of a strong evolutionary pressure to retain this system. These results together indicate that O-glycosylation in A. baumannii is required for full virulence and therefore represents a novel target for the development of new antibiotics.

Ito, T., et al. (2012). "Metal ion dependency of serine racemase from Dictyostelium discoideum." Amino Acids 43(4): 1567-1576.
	D-Serine is known to act as an endogenous co-agonist of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor in the mammalian brain and is endogenously synthesized from L-serine by a pyridoxal 5'-phosphate-dependent enzyme, serine racemase. Though the soil-living mycetozoa Dictyostelium discoideum possesses no genes homologous to that of NMDA receptor, it contains genes encoding putative proteins relating to the D-serine metabolism, such as serine racemase, D-amino acid oxidase, and D-serine dehydratase. D. discoideum is an attractive target for the elucidation of the unknown functions of D-serine such as a role in cell development. As part of the elucidation of the role of D-serine in D. discoideum, we cloned, overexpressed, and examined the properties of the putative serine racemase exhibiting 46% amino acid sequence similarity with the human enzyme. The enzyme is unique in its stimulation by monovalent cations such as Na(+) in addition to Mg(2+) and Ca(2+), which are well-known activators for the mammalian serine racemase. Mg(2+) or Na(+) binding caused two- to ninefold enhancement of the rates of both racemization and dehydration. The half-maximal activation concentrations of Mg(2+) and Na(+) were determined to be 1.2 muM and 2.2 mM, respectively. In the L-serine dehydrase reaction, Mg(2+) and Na(+) enhanced the k (cat) value without changing the K (m) value. Alanine mutation of the residues E207 and D213, which correspond to the Mg(2+)-binding site of Schizosaccharomyces pombe serine racemase, abolished the Mg(2+)- and Na(+)-dependent stimulation. These results suggest that Mg(2+) and Na(+) share the common metal ion-binding site.

Ishihara, D., et al. (2012). "The chemotactic defect in wiskott-Aldrich syndrome macrophages is due to the reduced persistence of directional protrusions." PLoS One 7(1): e30033.
	Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (WASp) is an actin nucleation promoting factor that is required for macrophages to directionally migrate towards various chemoattractants. The chemotaxis defect of WASp-deficient cells and its activation by Cdc42 in vivo suggest that WASp plays a role in directional sensing, however, its precise role in macrophage chemotaxis is still unclear. Using shRNA-mediated downregulation of WASp in the murine monocyte/macrophage cell line RAW/LR5 (shWASp), we found that WASp was responsible for the initial wave of actin polymerization in response to global stimulation with CSF-1, which in Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae and carcinoma cells has been correlated with the ability to migrate towards chemoattractants. Real-time monitoring of shWASp cells, as well as WASp(-/-) bone marrow-derived macrophages (BMMs), in response to a CSF-1 gradient revealed that the protrusions from WASp-deficient cells were directional, showing intact directional sensing. However, the protrusions from WASp-deficient cells demonstrated reduced persistence compared to their respective control shRNA and wild-type cells. Further examination showed that tyrosine phosphorylation of WASp was required for both the first wave of actin polymerization following global CSF-1 stimulation and proper directional responses towards CSF-1. Importantly, the PI3K, Rac1 and WAVE2 proteins were incorporated normally in CSF-1 - elicited protrusions in the absence of WASp, suggesting that membrane protrusion driven by the WAVE2 complex signaling is intact. Collectively, these results suggest that WASp and its phosphorylation play critical roles in coordinating the actin cytoskeleton rearrangements necessary for the persistence of protrusions required for directional migration of macrophages towards CSF-1.

Huber, R. J., et al. (2012). "CyrA, a matricellular protein that modulates cell motility in Dictyostelium discoideum." Matrix Biol 31(4): 271-280.
	CyrA, an extracellular matrix (slime sheath), calmodulin (CaM)-binding protein in Dictyostelium discoideum, possesses four tandem EGF-like repeats in its C-terminus and is proteolytically cleaved during asexual development. A previous study reported the expression and localization of CyrA cleavage products CyrA-C45 and CyrA-C40. In this study, an N-terminal antibody was produced that detected the full-length 63kDa protein (CyrA-C63). Western blot analyses showed that the intracellular expression of CyrA-C63 peaked between 12 and 16h of development, consistent with the time that cells are developing into a motile, multicellular slug. CyrA immunolocalization and CyrA-GFP showed that the protein localized to the endoplasmic reticulum, particularly its perinuclear component. CyrA-C63 secretion began shortly after the onset of starvation peaking between 8 and 16h of development. A pharmacological analysis showed that CyrA-C63 secretion was dependent on intracellular Ca(2+) release and active CaM, PI3K, and PLA2. CyrA-C63 bound to CaM both intra- and extracellularly and both proteins were detected in the slime sheath deposited by migrating slugs. In keeping with its purported function, CyrA-GFP over-expression enhanced cAMP-mediated chemotaxis and CyrA-C45 was detected in vinculin B (VinB)-GFP immunoprecipitates, thus providing a link between the increase in chemotaxis and a specific cytoskeletal component. Finally, DdEGFL1-FITC was detected on the membranes of cells capped with concanavalin A suggesting that a receptor exists for this peptide sequence. Together with previous studies, the data presented here suggests that CyrA is a bona fide matricellular protein in D. discoideum.

Huber, R. J. and D. H. O'Day (2012). "A matricellular protein and EGF-like repeat signalling in the social amoebozoan Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Mol Life Sci.
	Matricellular proteins interact with the extracellular matrix (ECM) and modulate cellular processes by binding to cell surface receptors and initiating intracellular signal transduction. Their association with the ECM and the ability of some members of this protein family to regulate cell motility have opened up new avenues of research to investigate their functions in normal and diseased cells. In this review, we summarize the research on CyrA, an ECM calmodulin-binding protein in Dictyostelium. CyrA is proteolytically cleaved into smaller EGF-like (EGFL) repeat containing cleavage products during development. The first EGFL repeat of CyrA binds to the cell surface and activates a novel signalling pathway that modulates cell motility in this model organism. The similarity of CyrA to the most well-characterized matricellular proteins in mammals allows it to be designated as the first matricellular protein identified in Dictyostelium.

Huber, R. J. and D. H. O'Day (2012). "EGF-like peptide-enhanced cell movement in Dictyostelium is mediated by protein kinases and the activity of several cytoskeletal proteins." Cell Signal 24(9): 1770-1780.
	DdEGFL1, a synthetic epidermal growth factor-like (EGFL) peptide based on the first EGFL repeat of the extracellular matrix, cysteine-rich, calmodulin-binding protein CyrA, has previously been shown to sustain the threonine phosphorylation of a 210kDa protein during the starvation of Dictyostelium cells. Immunoprecipitation coupled with a LC/MS/MS analysis identified the 210kDa protein as vinculin B (VinB). VinB shares sequence similarity with mammalian vinculin, a protein that links the actin cytoskeleton to the plasma membrane. Both threonine phosphorylated VinB (P-VinB) and VinB-GFP localized to the cytoplasm and cytoskeleton of Dictyostelium amoebae. VinB-GFP was also shown to be threonine phosphorylated and co-immunoprecipitated with established vinculin-binding cytoskeletal proteins (e.g. myosin II heavy chain, actin, alpha-actinin, talin). P-VinB and VinB-GFP were detected in DdEGFL1 pull-down assays, which also identified a 135kDa phosphothreonine protein and two phosphotyrosine proteins (35 and 32kDa) as potential components of the DdEGFL1 signaling pathway. DdEGFL1-enhanced cell movement required the cytoskeletal proteins talin B and paxillin B and tyrosine kinase activity mediated by PKA signaling, however VinB threonine phosphorylation was shown to be independent of PI3K/PLA2 signaling and PI3K and PKA kinase activity. Finally, VinB-GFP over-expression suppressed DdEGFL1-enhanced random cell movement, but not folic acid-mediated chemotaxis. Together, this study provides the first evidence for VinB function plus new insight into the signaling pathway(s) mediating EGFL repeat/peptide-enhanced cell movement in Dictyostelium. This information is integrated into an emerging model that summarizes existing knowledge.

Huber, R. J. and D. H. O'Day (2012). "The cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor roscovitine inhibits kinase activity, cell proliferation, multicellular development, and Cdk5 nuclear translocation in Dictyostelium discoideum." J Cell Biochem 113(3): 868-876.
	Roscovitine, a cyclin-dependent kinase (Cdk) inhibitor, inhibited kinase activity and the axenic growth of Dictyostelium discoideum at micromolar concentrations. Growth was almost fully rescued in 50 microM and approximately 50% rescued in 100 microM roscovitine-treated cultures by the over-expression of Cdk5-GFP. This supports the importance of Cdk5 function during cell proliferation in Dictyostelium and indicates that Cdk5 is a primary target of the drug. Roscovitine did not affect the expression of Cdk5 protein during axenic growth but did inhibit its nuclear translocation. This novel result suggests that the effects of roscovitine could be due in part to altering Cdk5 translocation in other systems as well. Kinase activity was inhibited by roscovitine in assays using AX3 whole cell lysates, but not in assays using lysates from Cdk5-GFP over-expressing cells. At higher concentrations, roscovitine impaired slug and fruiting body formation. Fruiting bodies that did form were small and produced relatively fewer spores many of which were round. However, roscovitine did not affect stalk cell differentiation. Together with previous findings, these data reveal that roscovitine inhibits Cdk5 during growth and as yet undefined Cdks during mid-late development. J. Cell. Biochem. 113: 868-876, 2012. (c) 2011 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

Hsu, D. W., et al. (2012). "Dynamic acetylation of lysine-4-trimethylated histone H3 and H3 variant biology in a simple multicellular eukaryote." Nucleic Acids Res 40(15): 7247-7256.
	Dynamic acetylation of all lysine-4-trimethylated histone H3 is a complex phenomenon involved in Immediate-early gene induction in metazoan eukaryotes. Higher eukaryotes express repeated copies of three closely related H3 variants, inaccessible to genetic analysis. We demonstrate conservation of these phenomena in Dictyostelium which has three single-copy H3 variant genes. Although dynamic acetylation is targeted to two H3 variants which are K4-trimethylated, K9-acetylation is preferentially targeted to one. In cells lacking Set1 methyltransferase and any detectable K4-trimethylation, dynamic acetylation is lost demonstrating a direct link between the two. Gene replacement to express mutated H3 variants reveals a novel interaction between K4-trimethylation on different variants. Cells expressing only one variant show defects in growth, and in induction of a UV-inducible gene, demonstrating the functional importance of variant expression. These studies confirm that dynamic acetylation targeted to H3K4me3 arose early in evolution and reveal a very high level of specificity of histone variant utilization in a simple multicellular eukaryote.

Hollis, B. (2012). "Rapid antagonistic coevolution between strains of the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc Biol Sci 279(1742): 3565-3571.
	Social groups face a fundamental problem of overcoming selfish individuals capable of destroying cooperation. In the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum, there is evidence that some clones ('cheaters') contribute disproportionately to the viable spores in a fruiting body while avoiding the dead stalk cell fate. It remains unclear, however, whether this cheating is actually the product of selection. Here, I report the results of an experimental evolution study designed to test whether clones of D. discoideum will evolve resistance to cheating in the laboratory with genetic variation created only through spontaneous mutation. Two strains, one green fluorescent protein (GFP)-labelled and one wild-type, were allowed to grow and develop together before the wild-type strain was removed and replaced with a naive strain evolving in parallel. Over the course of 10 social generations, the GFP-labelled strain reliably increased its representation in the spores relative to control populations that had never experienced the competitor. This competitive advantage extended to the non-social, vegetative growth portion of the life cycle, but not to pairwise competition with two other strains. These results indicate strong antagonism between strains, mediated by ample mutational variation for cheating and also suggest that arms races between strains in the wild may be common.

Hoffmann, C., et al. (2012). "Purification of pathogen vacuoles from Legionella-infected phagocytes." J Vis Exp(64).
	The opportunistic pathogen Legionella pneumophila is an amoeba-resistant bacterium, which also replicates in alveolar macrophages thus causing the severe pneumonia "Legionnaires' disease"(1). In protozoan and mammalian phagocytes, L. pneumophila employs a conserved mechanism to form a specific, replication-permissive compartment, the "Legionella-containing vacuole" (LCV). LCV formation requires the bacterial Icm/Dot type IV secretion system (T4SS), which translocates as many as 275 "effector" proteins into host cells. The effectors manipulate host proteins as well as lipids and communicate with secretory, endosomal and mitochondrial organelles(2-4). The formation of LCVs represents a complex, robust and redundant process, which is difficult to grasp in a reductionist manner. An integrative approach is required to comprehensively understand LCV formation, including a global analysis of pathogen-host factor interactions and their temporal and spatial dynamics. As a first step towards this goal, intact LCVs are purified and analyzed by proteomics and lipidomics. The composition and formation of pathogen-containing vacuoles has been investigated by proteomic analysis using liquid chromatography or 2-D gel electrophoresis coupled to mass-spectrometry. Vacuoles isolated from either the social soil amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum or mammalian phagocytes harboured Leishmania(5), Listeria(6), Mycobacterium(7), Rhodococcus(8), Salmonella(9) or Legionella spp.(10). However, the purification protocols employed in these studies are time-consuming and tedious, as they require e.g. electron microscopy to analyse LCV morphology, integrity and purity. Additionally, these protocols do not exploit specific features of the pathogen vacuole for enrichment. The method presented here overcomes these limitations by employing D. discoideum producing a fluorescent LCV marker and by targeting the bacterial effector protein SidC, which selectively anchors to the LCV membrane by binding to phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate (PtdIns(4)P)(3,11) . LCVs are enriched in a first step by immuno-magnetic separation using an affinity-purified primary antibody against SidC and a secondary antibody coupled to magnetic beads, followed in a second step by a classical Histodenz density gradient centrifugation(12,13) (Fig. 1). A proteome study of isolated LCVs from D. discoideum revealed more than 560 host cell proteins, including proteins associated with phagocytic vesicles, mitochondria, ER and Golgi, as well as several GTPases, which have not been implicated in LCV formation before(13). LCVs enriched and purified with the protocol outlined here can be further analyzed by microscopy (immunofluorescence, electron microscopy), biochemical methods (Western blot) and proteomic or lipidomic approaches.

Guhathakurta, P., et al. (2012). "Allosteric communication in Dictyostelium myosin II." J Muscle Res Cell Motil 33(5): 305-312.
	Myosin's affinities for nucleotides and actin are reciprocal. Actin-binding substantially reduces the affinity of ATP for myosin, but the effect of actin on myosin's ADP affinity is quite variable among myosin isoforms, serving as the principal mechanism for tuning the actomyosin system to specific physiological purposes. To understand the structural basis of this variable relationship between actin and ADP binding, we studied several constructs of the catalytic domain of Dictyostelium myosin II, varying their length (from the N-terminal origin) and cysteine content. The constructs varied considerably in their actin-activated ATPase activity and in the effect of actin on ADP affinity. Actin had no significant effect on ADP affinity for a single-cysteine catalytic domain construct, a double-cysteine construct partially restored the actin-dependence of ADP binding, and restoration of all native Cys restored it further, but full restoration of function (similar to that of skeletal muscle myosin II) was obtained only by adding all native Cys and an artificial lever arm extension. Pyrene-actin fluorescence confirmed these effects on ADP binding to actomyosin. We conclude that myosin's Cys content and lever arm both allosterically modulate the reciprocal affinities of myosin for ADP and actin, a key determinant of the biological functions of myosin isoforms.

Goury-Sistla, P., et al. (2012). "Bimodal distribution of motility and cell fate in Dictyostelium discoideum." Int J Dev Biol.
	Pre-starvation amoebae of Dictyostelium discoideum exhibit random movements. Starved cells aggregate by directed movements (chemotaxis) towards cyclic AMP and differentiate into live spores or dead stalk cells. Many differences between presumptive spore and stalk cells precede differentiation. We have examined whether cell motility-related factors are also among them. Cell speeds and localisation of motility-related signalling molecules were monitored by live cell imaging and immunostaining (a) in nutrient medium during growth, (b) immediately following transfer to starvation medium and (c) in nutrient medium that was re-introduced after a brief period of starvation. Cells moved randomly under all three conditions but mean speeds increased following transfer from nutrient medium to starvation medium; the transition occurred within 15 min. The distribution of speeds in starvation medium was bimodal: about 20% of the cells moved significantly faster than the remaining 80%. The motility-related molecules F-actin, PTEN and PI3 kinase were distributed differently in slow and fast cells. Among starved cells, the calcium content of slower cells was lower than that of the faster cells. All differences reverted within 15 min after restoration of the nutrient medium. The slow/fast distinction was missing in Polysphondylium pallidum, a cellular slime mould that lacks the presumptive stalk and spore cell classes, and in the trishanku (triA(-)) mutant of D. discoideum, in which the classes exist but are unstable. The transition from growth to starvation triggers a spontaneous and reversible switch in the distribution of D. discoideum cell speeds. Cells whose calcium content is relatively low (known to be presumptive spore cells) move slower than those whose calcium levels are higher (known to be presumptive stalk cells). Slow and fast cells show different distributions of motility-related proteins. The switch is indicative of a bistable mechanism underlying cell motility.

Gosain, A., et al. (2012). "Identification and characterization of peptide: N-glycanase from Dictyostelium discoideum." BMC Biochem 13: 9.
	BACKGROUND: Peptide: N- glycanase (PNGase) enzyme cleaves oligosaccharides from the misfolded glycoproteins and prepares them for degradation. This enzyme plays a role in the endoplasmic reticulum associated degradation (ERAD) pathway in yeast and mice but its biological importance and role in multicellular development remain largely unknown. RESULTS: In this study, the PNGase from the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum (DdPNGase) was identified based on the presence of a common TG (transglutaminase) core domain and its sequence homology with the known PNGases. The domain architecture and the sequence comparison validated the presence of probable functional domains in DdPNGase. The tertiary structure matched with the mouse PNGase. Here we show that DdPNGase is an essential protein, required for aggregation during multicellular development and a knockout strain of it results in small sized aggregates, all of which did not form fruiting bodies. The in situ hybridization and RT-PCR results show higher level of expression during the aggregate stage. The expression gets restricted to the prestalk region during later developmental stages. DdPNGase is a functional peptide:N-glycanase enzyme possessing deglycosylation activity, but does not possess any significant transamidation activity. CONCLUSIONS: We have identified and characterized a novel PNGase from D. discoideum and confirmed its deglycosylation activity. The results emphasize the importance of PNGase in aggregation during multicellular development of this organism.

Gopaldass, N., et al. (2012). "Dynamin A, Myosin IB and Abp1 couple phagosome maturation to F-actin binding." Traffic 13(1): 120-130.
	The role of actin, class I myosins and dynamin in endocytic uptake processes is well characterized, but their role during endo-phagosomal membrane trafficking and maturation is less clear. In Dictyostelium, knockout of myosin IB (myoB) leads to a defect in membrane protein recycling from endosomes back to the plasma membrane. Here, we show that actin plays a central role in the morphology and function of the endocytic pathway. Indeed, latrunculin B (LatB) induces endosome tubulation, a phenotype also observed in dynamin A (dymA)-null cells. Knockout of dymA impairs phagosome acidification, whereas knockout of myoB delays reneutralization, a phenotype mimicked by a low dose of LatB. As a read out for actin-dependent processes during maturation, we monitored the capacity of purified phagosomes to bind F-actin in vitro, and correlated this with the presence of actin-binding and membrane-trafficking proteins. Phagosomes isolated from myoB-null cells showed an increased binding to F-actin, especially late phagosomes. In contrast, early phagosomes from dymA-null cells showed reduced binding to F-actin while late phagosomes were unaffected. We provide evidence that Abp1 is the main F-actin-binding protein in this assay and is central for the interplay between DymA and MyoB during phagosome maturation.

Gilsbach, B. K., et al. (2012). "Roco kinase structures give insights into the mechanism of Parkinson disease-related leucine-rich-repeat kinase 2 mutations." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 109(26): 10322-10327.
	Mutations in human leucine-rich-repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) have been found to be the most frequent cause of late-onset Parkinson disease. Here we show that Dictyostelium discoideum Roco4 is a suitable model to study the structural and biochemical characteristics of the LRRK2 kinase and can be used for optimization of current and identification of new LRRK2 inhibitors. We have solved the structure of Roco4 kinase wild-type, Parkinson disease-related mutants G1179S and L1180T (G2019S and I2020T in LRRK2) and the structure of Roco4 kinase in complex with the LRRK2 inhibitor H1152. Taken together, our data give important insight in the LRRK2 activation mechanism and, most importantly, explain the G2019S-related increase in LRRK2 kinase activity.

Gilbert, O. M., et al. (2012). "High relatedness in a social amoeba: the role of kin-discriminatory segregation." Proc Biol Sci 279(1738): 2619-2624.
	A major challenge for social theory is to explain the importance of kin discrimination for the evolution of altruism. One way to assess the importance of kin discrimination is to test its effects on increasing relatedness within groups. The social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum aggregates to form a fruiting body composed of dead stalk and live spores. Previous studies of a natural population showed that where D. discoideum occurs in the soil, multiple clones are often found in the same small soil samples. However, actual fruiting bodies usually contain only one clone. We here performed experiments to gauge the effect of kin-discriminatory segregation on increasing relatedness. We mixed co-occurring clones from this population using a relatedness level found in small soil samples. We found a lower proportion of uniclonal fruiting bodies and a lower level of relatedness compared with natural fruiting bodies. We found that the amount of relatedness increase attributable to kin-discriminatory segregation was small. These findings suggest a relatively minor influence of kin-discriminatory segregation on relatedness in D. discoideum. We discuss our results comparing with the results of previous studies, including those of wild clones and laboratory mutants. We ask why wild clones of D. discoideum exhibit a low degree of kin-discriminatory segregation, and what alternative factors might account for high relatedness in D. discoideum.

Gejji, R., et al. (2012). "Classification and stability of global inhomogeneous solutions of a macroscopic model of cell motion." Math Biosci 238(1): 21-31.
	Many micro-organisms use chemotaxis for aggregation, resulting in stable patterns. In this paper, the amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum serves as a model organism for understanding the conditions for aggregation and classification of resulting patterns. To accomplish this, a 1D nonlinear diffusion equation with chemotaxis that models amoeba behavior is analyzed. A classification of the steady state solutions is presented, and a Lyapunov functional is used to determine conditions for stability of inhomogenous solutions. Changing the chemical sensitivity, production rate of the chemical attractant, or domain length can cause the system to transition from having an asymptotic steady state, to having asymptotically stable single-step solution and multi-stepped stable plateau solutions.

Froquet, R., et al. (2012). "TM9/Phg1 and SadA proteins control surface expression and stability of SibA adhesion molecules in Dictyostelium." Mol Biol Cell.
	TM9 proteins form a family of conserved proteins with nine transmembrane domains essential for cellular adhesion in many biological systems, but their exact role in this process remains unknown. Here we found that in Dictyostelium amoebae, genetic inactivation of the TM9 protein Phg1A dramatically decreases the surface levels of the SibA adhesion molecule. This is due to a decrease in sibA mRNA levels, in SibA protein stability, and in SibA targeting to the cell surface. A similar phenotype was observed in cells devoid of SadA, a protein that does not belong to the TM9 family but also exhibits 9 transmembrane domains and is essential for cellular adhesion. A csA-SibA chimeric protein comprising only the transmembrane and cytosolic domains of SibA and the extracellular domain of csA, a Dictyostelium surface protein, also showed reduced stability and relocalization to endocytic compartments in phg1A knockout cells. These results indicate that TM9 proteins participate in cell adhesion by controlling the levels of adhesion proteins present at the cell surface.

Filic, V., et al. (2012). "A dual role for Rac1 GTPases in the regulation of cell motility." J Cell Sci.
	Rac proteins are the only canonical Rho family GTPases in Dictyostelium, where they act as key regulators of the actin cytoskeleton. To monitor the dynamics of activated Rac1 in Dictyostelium cells, a fluorescent probe was developed that specifically binds to the GTP-bound form of Rac1. The probe is based on the GTPase-binding domain (GBD) from PAK1 kinase, and was selected on the basis of yeast two-hybrid, GST pull-down and fluorescence resonance energy transfer assays. The PAK1 GBD localizes to leading edges of migrating cells and to endocytotic cups. Similarly to its role in vertebrates, activated Rac1 therefore appears to control de novo actin polymerization at protruding regions of the Dictyostelium cell. Additionally, we found that the IQGAP-related protein DGAP1, which sequesters active Rac1 into a quaternary complex with actin-binding proteins cortexillin I and cortexillin II, localizes to the trailing regions of migrating cells. Notably, PAK1 GBD and DGAP1, which both bind to Rac1-GTP, display mutually exclusive localizations in cell migration, phagocytosis and cytokinesis, and opposite dynamics of recruitment to the cell cortex upon stimulation with chemoattractants. Moreover, cortical localization of the PAK1 GBD depends on the integrity of the actin cytoskeleton, whereas cortical localization of DGAP1 does not. Taken together, these results imply that Rac1 GTPases play a dual role in regulation of cell motility and polarity in Dictyostelium.

Essid, M., et al. (2012). "Rab8a regulates the exocyst-mediated kiss-and-run discharge of the Dictyostelium contractile vacuole." Mol Biol Cell 23(7): 1267-1282.
	Water expulsion by the contractile vacuole (CV) in Dictyostelium is carried out by a giant kiss-and-run focal exocytic event during which the two membranes are only transiently connected but do not completely merge. We present a molecular dissection of the GTPase Rab8a and the exocyst complex in tethering of the contractile vacuole to the plasma membrane, fusion, and final detachment. Right before discharge, the contractile vacuole bladder sequentially recruits Drainin, a Rab11a effector, Rab8a, the exocyst complex, and LvsA, a protein of the Chediak-Higashi family. Rab8a recruitment precedes the nucleotide-dependent arrival of the exocyst to the bladder by a few seconds. A dominant-negative mutant of Rab8a strongly binds to the exocyst and prevents recruitment to the bladder, suggesting that a Rab8a guanine nucleotide exchange factor activity is associated with the complex. Absence of Drainin leads to overtethering and blocks fusion, whereas expression of constitutively active Rab8a allows fusion but blocks vacuole detachment from the plasma membrane, inducing complete fragmentation of tethered vacuoles. An indistinguishable phenotype is generated in cells lacking LvsA, implicating this protein in postfusion detethering. Of interest, overexpression of a constitutively active Rab8a mutant reverses the lvsA-null CV phenotype.

Elphick, L. M., et al. (2012). "Conserved valproic-acid-induced lipid droplet formation in Dictyostelium and human hepatocytes identifies structurally active compounds." Dis Model Mech 5(2): 231-240.
	Lipid droplet formation and subsequent steatosis (the abnormal retention of lipids within a cell) has been reported to contribute to hepatotoxicity and is an adverse effect of many pharmacological agents including the antiepileptic drug valproic acid (VPA). In this study, we have developed a simple model system (Dictyostelium discoideum) to investigate the effects of VPA and related compounds in lipid droplet formation. In mammalian hepatocytes, VPA increases lipid droplet accumulation over a 24-hour period, giving rise to liver cell damage, and we show a similar effect in Dictyostelium following 30 minutes of VPA treatment. Using (3)H-labelled polyunsaturated (arachidonic) or saturated (palmitic) fatty acids, we shown that VPA treatment of Dictyostelium gives rise to an increased accumulation of both types of fatty acids in phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylethanolamine and non-polar lipids in this time period, with a similar trend observed in human hepatocytes (Huh7 cells) labelled with [(3)H]arachidonic acid. In addition, pharmacological inhibition of beta-oxidation in Dictyostelium phenocopies fatty acid accumulation, in agreement with data reported in mammalian systems. Using Dictyostelium, we then screened a range of VPA-related compounds to identify those with high and low lipid-accumulation potential, and validated these activities for effects on lipid droplet formation by using human hepatocytes. Structure-activity relationships for these VPA-related compounds suggest that lipid accumulation is independent of VPA-catalysed teratogenicity and inositol depletion. These results suggest that Dictyostelium could provide both a novel model system for the analysis of lipid droplet formation in human hepatocytes and a rapid method for identifying VPA-related compounds that show liver toxicology.

El-Ajouz, S., et al. (2012). "Molecular basis of selective antagonism of the P2X1 receptor for ATP by NF449 and suramin: contribution of basic amino acids in the cysteine-rich loop." Br J Pharmacol 165(2): 390-400.
	BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The cysteine-rich head region, which is adjacent to the proposed ATP-binding pocket in the extracellular ligand-binding loop of P2X receptors for ATP, is absent in the antagonist-insensitive Dictyostelium receptors. In this study we have determined the contribution of the head region to the antagonist action of NF449 and suramin at the human P2X1 receptor. EXPERIMENTAL APPROACH: Chimeras and point mutations in the cysteine-rich head region were made between human P2X1 and P2X2 receptors. Mutant receptors were expressed in Xenopus oocytes and P2X receptor currents characterized using two-electrode voltage clamp. KEY RESULTS: The chimera replacing the region between the third and fourth conserved cysteine residues of the P2X1 receptor with the corresponding part of P2X2 reduced NF449 sensitivity a thousand fold from an IC(50) of approximately 1 nM at the P2X1 receptor to that of the P2X2 receptor (IC(50) approximately 1 microM). A similar decrease in sensitivity resulted from mutation of four positively charged P2X1 receptor residues in this region that are absent from the P2X2 receptor. These chimeras and mutations were also involved in determining sensitivity to the antagonist suramin. Reciprocal chimeras and mutations in the P2X2 receptor produced modest increases in antagonist sensitivity. CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS: These data indicate that a cluster of positively charged residues at the base of the cysteine-rich head region can account for the highly selective antagonism of the P2X1 receptor by the suramin derivative NF449.

Edwards, S. and B. V. Kjellerup (2012). "Exploring the applications of invertebrate host-pathogen models for in vivo biofilm infections." FEMS Immunol Med Microbiol 65(2): 205-214.
	In the natural environment, microorganisms exist together in self-produced polymeric matrix biofilms. Often, several species, which can belong to both bacterial and fungal kingdoms, coexist and interact in ways which are not completely understood. Biofilm infections have become prevalent largely in medical settings because of the increasing use of indwelling medical devices such as catheters or prosthetics. These infections are resistant to common antimicrobial therapies because of the inherent nature of their structure. In terms of infectious biofilms, it is important to understand the microbe-microbe interactions and how the host immune system reacts in order to discover therapeutic targets. Currently, single infection immune response studies are thriving with the use of invertebrate models. This review highlights the advances in single microbial-host immune response as well as the promising aspects of polymicrobial biofilm study in five invertebrate models: Lemna minor (duckweed), Arabidopsis thaliana (thale cress), Dictyostelium discoideum (slime mold), Drosophila melanogaster (common fruit fly), and Caenorhabditis elegans (roundworm).

Eckert, C., et al. (2012). "Conservation and divergence between cytoplasmic and muscle-specific actin capping proteins: insights from the crystal structure of cytoplasmic Cap32/34 from Dictyostelium discoideum." BMC Struct Biol 12: 12.
	BACKGROUND: Capping protein (CP), also known as CapZ in muscle cells and Cap32/34 in Dictyostelium discoideum, plays a major role in regulating actin filament dynamics. CP is a ubiquitously expressed heterodimer comprising an alpha- and beta-subunit. It tightly binds to the fast growing end of actin filaments, thereby functioning as a "cap" by blocking the addition and loss of actin subunits. Vertebrates contain two somatic variants of CP, one being primarily found at the cell periphery of non-muscle tissues while the other is mainly localized at the Z-discs of skeletal muscles. RESULTS: To elucidate structural and functional differences between cytoplasmic and sarcomercic CP variants, we have solved the atomic structure of Cap32/34 (32=beta- and 34=alpha-subunit) from the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium at 2.2 A resolution and compared it to that of chicken muscle CapZ. The two homologs display a similar overall arrangement including the attached alpha-subunit C-terminus (alpha-tentacle) and the flexible beta-tentacle. Nevertheless, the structures exhibit marked differences suggesting considerable structural flexibility within the alpha-subunit. In the alpha-subunit we observed a bending motion of the beta-sheet region located opposite to the position of the C-terminal beta-tentacle towards the antiparallel helices that interconnect the heterodimer. Recently, a two domain twisting attributed mainly to the beta-subunit has been reported. At the hinge of these two domains Cap32/34 contains an elongated and highly flexible loop, which has been reported to be important for the interaction of cytoplasmic CP with actin and might contribute to the more dynamic actin-binding of cytoplasmic compared to sarcomeric CP (CapZ). CONCLUSIONS: The structure of Cap32/34 from Dictyostelium discoideum allowed a detailed analysis and comparison between the cytoplasmic and sarcomeric variants of CP. Significant structural flexibility could particularly be found within the alpha-subunit, a loop region in the beta-subunit, and the surface of the alpha-globule where the amino acid differences between the cytoplasmic and sarcomeric mammalian CP are located. Hence, the crystal structure of Cap32/34 raises the possibility of different binding behaviours of the CP variants toward the barbed end of actin filaments, a feature, which might have arisen from adaptation to different environments.

Driscoll, M. K., et al. (2012). "Cell shape dynamics: from waves to migration." PLoS Comput Biol 8(3): e1002392.
	We observe and quantify wave-like characteristics of amoeboid migration. Using the amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum, a model system for the study of chemotaxis, we demonstrate that cell shape changes in a wave-like manner. Cells have regions of high boundary curvature that propagate from the leading edge toward the back, usually along alternating sides of the cell. Curvature waves are easily seen in cells that do not adhere to a surface, such as cells that are electrostatically repelled from surfaces or cells that extend over the edge of micro-fabricated cliffs. Without surface contact, curvature waves travel from the leading edge to the back of a cell at -35 microm/min. Non-adherent myosin II null cells do not exhibit these curvature waves. At the leading edge of adherent cells, curvature waves are associated with protrusive activity. Like regions of high curvature, protrusive activity travels along the boundary in a wave-like manner. Upon contact with a surface, the protrusions stop moving relative to the surface, and the boundary shape thus reflects the history of protrusive motion. The wave-like character of protrusions provides a plausible mechanism for the zig-zagging of pseudopods and for the ability of cells both to swim in viscous fluids and to navigate complex three dimensional topography.

Dieckmann, R., et al. (2012). "The balance in the delivery of ER components and the vacuolar proton pump to the phagosome depends on myosin IK in Dictyostelium." Mol Cell Proteomics 11(10): 886-900.
	In Dictyostelium, the cytoskeletal proteins Actin binding protein 1 (Abp1) and the class I myosin MyoK directly interact and couple actin dynamics to membrane deformation during phagocytosis. Together with the kinase PakB, they build a regulatory switch that controls the efficiency of uptake of large particles. As a basis for further functional dissection, exhaustive phagosome proteomics was performed and established that about 1300 proteins participate in phagosome biogenesis. Then, quantitative and comparative proteomic analysis of phagosome maturation was performed to investigate the impact of the absence of MyoK or Abp1. Immunoblots and two-dimensional differential gel electrophoresis of phagosomes isolated from myoK-null and abp1-null cells were used to determine the relative abundance of proteins during the course of maturation. Immunoblot profiling showed that absence of Abp1 alters the maturation profile of its direct binding partners such as actin and the Arp2/3 complex, suggesting that Abp1 directly regulates actin dynamics at the phagosome. Comparative two-dimensional differential gel electrophoresis analysis resulted in the quantification of mutant-to-wild type abundance ratios at all stages of maturation for over one hundred identified proteins. Coordinated temporal changes in these ratio profiles determined the classification of identified proteins into functional groups. Ratio profiling revealed that the early delivery of ER proteins to the phagosome was affected by the absence of MyoK and was coupled to a reciprocal imbalance in the delivery of the vacuolar proton pump and Rab11 GTPases. As direct functional consequences, a delayed acidification and a reduced intraphagosomal proteolysis were demonstrated in vivo in myoK-null cells. In conclusion, the absence of MyoK alters the balance of the contributions of the ER and an endo-lysosomal compartment, and slows down phagosome acidification as well as the speed and efficiency of particle degradation inside the phagosome.

Dickinson, D. J., et al. (2012). "alpha-catenin and IQGAP regulate myosin localization to control epithelial tube morphogenesis in Dictyostelium." Dev Cell 23(3): 533-546.
	Apical actomyosin activity in animal epithelial cells influences tissue morphology and drives morphogenetic movements during development. The molecular mechanisms leading to myosin II accumulation at the apical membrane and its exclusion from other membranes are poorly understood. We show that in the nonmetazoan Dictyostelium discoideum, myosin II localizes apically in tip epithelial cells that surround the stalk, and constriction of this epithelial tube is required for proper morphogenesis. IQGAP1 and its binding partner cortexillin I function downstream of alpha- and beta-catenin to exclude myosin II from the basolateral cortex and promote apical accumulation of myosin II. Deletion of IQGAP1 or cortexillin compromises epithelial morphogenesis without affecting cell polarity. These results reveal that apical localization of myosin II is a conserved morphogenetic mechanism from nonmetazoans to vertebrates and identify a hierarchy of proteins that regulate the polarity and organization of an epithelial tube in a simple model organism.

Dickinson, D. J., et al. (2012). "An epithelial tissue in Dictyostelium challenges the traditional origin of metazoan multicellularity." Bioessays 34(10): 833-840.
	We hypothesize that aspects of animal multicellularity originated before the divergence of metazoans from fungi and social amoebae. Polarized epithelial tissues are a defining feature of metazoans and contribute to the diversity of animal body plans. The recent finding of a polarized epithelium in the non-metazoan social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum demonstrates that epithelial tissue is not a unique feature of metazoans, and challenges the traditional paradigm that multicellularity evolved independently in social amoebae and metazoans. An alternative view, presented here, is that the common ancestor of social amoebae, fungi, and animals spent a portion of its life cycle in a multicellular state and possessed molecular machinery necessary for forming an epithelial tissue. Some descendants of this ancestor retained multicellularity, while others reverted to unicellularity. This hypothesis makes testable predictions regarding tissue organization in close relatives of metazoans and provides a novel conceptual framework for studies of early animal evolution.

Cooper, R. M., et al. (2012). "An excitable cortex and memory model successfully predicts new pseudopod dynamics." PLoS One 7(3): e33528.
	Motile eukaryotic cells migrate with directional persistence by alternating left and right turns, even in the absence of external cues. For example, Dictyostelium discoideum cells crawl by extending distinct pseudopods in an alternating right-left pattern. The mechanisms underlying this zig-zag behavior, however, remain unknown. Here we propose a new Excitable Cortex and Memory (EC&M) model for understanding the alternating, zig-zag extension of pseudopods. Incorporating elements of previous models, we consider the cell cortex as an excitable system and include global inhibition of new pseudopods while a pseudopod is active. With the novel hypothesis that pseudopod activity makes the local cortex temporarily more excitable--thus creating a memory of previous pseudopod locations--the model reproduces experimentally observed zig-zag behavior. Furthermore, the EC&M model makes four new predictions concerning pseudopod dynamics. To test these predictions we develop an algorithm that detects pseudopods via hierarchical clustering of individual membrane extensions. Data from cell-tracking experiments agrees with all four predictions of the model, revealing that pseudopod placement is a non-Markovian process affected by the dynamics of previous pseudopods. The model is also compatible with known limits of chemotactic sensitivity. In addition to providing a predictive approach to studying eukaryotic cell motion, the EC&M model provides a general framework for future models, and suggests directions for new research regarding the molecular mechanisms underlying directional persistence.

Chen, Z. H. and P. Schaap (2012). "The prokaryote messenger c-di-GMP triggers stalk cell differentiation in Dictyostelium." Nature 488(7413): 680-683.
	Cyclic di-(3':5')-guanosine monophosphate (c-di-GMP) is a major prokaryote signalling intermediate that is synthesized by diguanylate cyclases and triggers sessility and biofilm formation. We detected the first eukaryote diguanylate cyclases in all major groups of Dictyostelia. On food depletion, Dictyostelium discoideum amoebas collect into aggregates, which first transform into migrating slugs and then into sessile fruiting structures. These structures consist of a spherical spore mass that is supported by a column of stalk cells and a basal disk. A polyketide, DIF-1, which induces stalk-like cells in vitro, was isolated earlier. However, its role in vivo proved recently to be restricted to basal disk formation. Here we show that the Dictyostelium diguanylate cyclase, DgcA, produces c-di-GMP as the morphogen responsible for stalk cell differentiation. Dictyostelium discoideum DgcA synthesized c-di-GMP in a GTP-dependent manner and was expressed at the slug tip, which is the site of stalk cell differentiation. Disruption of the DgcA gene blocked the transition from slug migration to fructification and the expression of stalk genes. Fructification and stalk formation were restored by exposing DgcA-null slugs to wild-type secretion products or to c-di-GMP. Moreover, c-di-GMP, but not cyclic di-(3':5')-adenosine monophosphate, induced stalk gene expression in dilute cell monolayers. Apart from identifying the long-elusive stalk-inducing morphogen, our work also identifies a role for c-di-GMP in eukaryotes.

Chen, C. L., et al. (2012). "Myosin I Links PIP3 Signaling to Remodeling of the Actin Cytoskeleton in Chemotaxis." Sci Signal 5(209): ra10.
	Class I myosins participate in various interactions between the cell membrane and the cytoskeleton. Several class I myosins preferentially bind to acidic phospholipids, such as phosphatidylserine and phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate [PI(4,5)P(2)], through a tail homology 1 (TH1) domain. Here, we show that the second messenger lipid phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate (PIP(3)) binds to the TH1 domain of a subset of Dictyostelium class I myosins (ID, IE, and IF) and recruits them to the plasma membrane. The PIP(3)-regulated membrane recruitment of myosin I promoted chemotaxis and induced chemoattractant-stimulated actin polymerization. Similarly, PIP(3) recruited human myosin IF to the plasma membrane upon chemotactic stimulation in a neutrophil cell line. These data suggest a mechanism through which the PIP(3) signal is transmitted through myosin I to the actin cytoskeleton.

Chen, C. L. and M. Iijima (2012). "Myosin I: A new pip(3) effector in chemotaxis and phagocytosis." Commun Integr Biol 5(3): 294-296.
	Phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate (PtdIns(3,4,5)P(3)) is a key signaling molecule in chemotaxis, a directed cell migration toward chemoattractants. PtdIns(3,4,5)P(3) is transiently generated by chemotactic stimulation and activates reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton at the leading edge of migrating cells. In a recent study, we demonstrated that PtdIns(3,4,5)P(3) directly binds to three members of the actin-based motor protein myosin I (myosin ID, IE and IF) in Dictyostelium discoideum and recruits these proteins to the plasma membrane of the leading edge. The PtdIns(3,4,5)P(3)-regulated membrane recruitment of myosin I induced chemoattractant-stimulated actin polymerization and was therefore required for chemotaxis. Similarly, human myosin IF was translocated to the plasma membrane through interactions with PtdIns(3,4,5)P(3) upon chemotactic stimulation in a neutrophil cell line. Interestingly, we also found that the three PtdIns(3,4,5)P(3)-binding myosin I proteins function in phagocytosis, which involves both PtdIns(3,4,5)P(3) signaling and actin cytoskeleton remodeling. Our findings provide an evolutionarily conserved mechanism by which class I myosin transmits PtdIns(3,4,5)P(3) signals to the actin cytoskeleton.

Chang, P., et al. (2012). "The antiepileptic drug valproic acid and other medium-chain fatty acids acutely reduce phosphoinositide levels independently of inositol in Dictyostelium." Dis Model Mech 5(1): 115-124.
	Valproic acid (VPA) is the most widely prescribed epilepsy treatment worldwide, but its mechanism of action remains unclear. Our previous work identified a previously unknown effect of VPA in reducing phosphoinositide production in the simple model Dictyostelium followed by the transfer of data to a mammalian synaptic release model. In our current study, we show that the reduction in phosphoinositide [PtdInsP (also known as PIP) and PtdInsP(2) (also known as PIP(2))] production caused by VPA is acute and dose dependent, and that this effect occurs independently of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) activity, inositol recycling and inositol synthesis. In characterising the structural requirements for this effect, we also identify a family of medium-chain fatty acids that show increased efficacy compared with VPA. Within the group of active compounds is a little-studied group previously associated with seizure control, and analysis of two of these compounds (nonanoic acid and 4-methyloctanoic acid) shows around a threefold enhanced potency compared with VPA for protection in an in vitro acute rat seizure model. Together, our data show that VPA and a newly identified group of medium-chain fatty acids reduce phosphoinositide levels independently of inositol regulation, and suggest the reinvestigation of these compounds as treatments for epilepsy.

Chang, G. S., et al. (2012). "Unusual combinatorial involvement of poly-A/T tracts in organizing genes and chromatin in Dictyostelium." Genome Res 22(6): 1098-1106.
	Dictyostelium discoideum is an amoebozoa that exists in both a free-living unicellular and a multicellular form. It is situated in a deep branch in the evolutionary tree and is particularly noteworthy in having a very A/T-rich genome. Dictyostelium provides an ideal system to examine the extreme to which nucleotide bias may be employed in organizing promoters, genes, and nucleosomes across a genome. We find that Dictyostelium genes are demarcated precisely at their 5' ends by poly-T tracts and precisely at their 3' ends by poly-A tracts. These tracts are also associated with nucleosome-free regions and are embedded with precisely positioned TATA boxes. Homo- and heteropolymeric tracts of A and T demarcate nucleosome border regions. Together, these findings reveal the presence of a variety of functionally distinct polymeric A/T elements. Strikingly, Dictyostelium chromatin may be organized in di-nucleosome units but is otherwise organized as in animals. This includes a +1 nucleosome in a position that predicts the presence of a paused RNA polymerase II. Indeed, we find a strong phylogenetic relationship between the presence of the NELF pausing factor and positioning of the +1 nucleosome. Pausing and +1 nucleosome positioning may have coevolved in animals.

Catalano, A. and D. H. O'Day (2012). "Nucleoplasmic/nucleolar translocation and identification of a nuclear localization signal (NLS) in Dictyostelium BAF60a/SMARCD1 homologue Snf12." Histochem Cell Biol 138(3): 515-530.
	Dictyostelium is a model eukaryote for the study of several cellular processes; however, comparatively little is known about its nucleolus. Identification of nucleolar proteins is key to understanding this nuclear subcompartment, but only four have been identified in Dictyostelium. As discussed in this article, a potential relationship between nucleolar NumA1 and BAF60a/SMARCD1 suggested BAF60a may also reside in the nucleolus. Here, we identify BAF60a homologue Snf12 as the fifth nucleolar protein in Dictyostelium. Immunolocalization experiments demonstrate that Snf12 is nucleoplasmic, but translocates to nucleoli upon actinomycin-D-induced transcription inhibition (0.05 mg/mL, 4 h). Translocation was accompanied by a microtubule-independent protrusion of nucleolar Snf12 regions from the nucleus followed by detection of Snf12 in cytoplasmic circles for at least 48 h. Residues (372)KRKR(375) are both necessary and sufficient for nucleoplasmic localization of Snf12 and represent a functional nuclear localization signal (NLS), similar to recently identified NLSs in other Dictyostelium proteins. Since nucleolar and nucleoplasmic proteins redistribute during mitosis, we investigated Snf12 dynamics during this time. Dictyostelium undergoes closed mitosis, meaning its nuclear envelope remains intact. Despite this, during metaphase and anaphase Snf12 redistributed throughout the cytoplasm before reaccumulating in the nucleus during telophase, unlike the previously reported nucleoplasmic redistribution of nucleolar NumA1. The nuclear exit of Snf12 was independent of its putative nuclear export signal and not inhibited by exportin inhibition, suggesting that the redistribution of nuclear proteins during mitosis in Dictyostelium is mediated by other mechanisms. Snf12 is the second Dictyostelium nucleolar protein for which its dynamics during mitosis have been investigated.

Cai, H., et al. (2012). "Analysis of chemotaxis in Dictyostelium." Methods Mol Biol 757: 451-468.
	Dictyostelium discoideum is an excellent model organism for the study of directed cell migration, since Dictyostelium cells show robust chemotactic responses to the chemoattractant cAMP. Many powerful experimental tools are applicable, including forward and reverse genetics, biochemistry, microscopy, and proteomics. Recent studies have demonstrated that many components involved in chemotaxis are functionally conserved between human neutrophils and Dictyostelium amoebae. In this chapter, we describe how to define the functions of proteins that mediate and regulate cell motility, cell polarity, and directional sensing during chemotaxis in Dictyostelium.

Buttery, N. J., et al. (2012). "Structured growth and genetic drift raise relatedness in the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum." Biol Lett 8(5): 794-797.
	One condition for the evolution of altruism is genetic relatedness between altruist and beneficiary, often achieved through active kin recognition. Here, we investigate the power of a passive process resulting from genetic drift during population growth in the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum. We put labelled and unlabelled cells of the same clone in the centre of a plate, and allowed them to proliferate outward. Zones formed by genetic drift owing to the small population of actively growing cells at the colony edge. We also found that single cells could form zones of high relatedness. Relatedness increased at a significantly higher rate when food was in short supply. This study shows that relatedness can be significantly elevated before the social stage without a small founding population size or recognition mechanism.

Brzeska, H., et al. (2012). "Molecular basis of dynamic relocalization of Dictyostelium myosin IB." J Biol Chem 287(18): 14923-14936.
	Class I myosins have a single heavy chain comprising an N-terminal motor domain with actin-activated ATPase activity and a C-terminal globular tail with a basic region that binds to acidic phospholipids. These myosins contribute to the formation of actin-rich protrusions such as pseudopodia, but regulation of the dynamic localization to these structures is not understood. Previously, we found that Acanthamoeba myosin IC binds to acidic phospholipids in vitro through a short sequence of basic and hydrophobic amino acids, BH site, based on the charge density of the phospholipids. The tail of Dictyostelium myosin IB (DMIB) also contains a BH site. We now report that the BH site is essential for DMIB binding to the plasma membrane and describe the molecular basis of the dynamic relocalization of DMIB in live cells. Endogenous DMIB is localized uniformly on the plasma membrane of resting cells, at active protrusions and cell-cell contacts of randomly moving cells, and at the front of motile polarized cells. The BH site is required for association of DMIB with the plasma membrane at all stages where it colocalizes with phosphoinositide bisphosphate/phosphoinositide trisphosphate (PIP(2)/PIP(3)). The charge-based specificity of the BH site allows for in vivo specificity of DMIB for PIP(2)/PIP(3) similar to the PH domain-based specificity of other class I myosins. However, DMIB-head is required for relocalization of DMIB to the front of migrating cells. Motor activity is not essential, but the actin binding site in the head is important. Thus, dynamic relocalization of DMIB is determined principally by the local PIP(2)/PIP(3) concentration in the plasma membrane and cytoplasmic F-actin.

Brown, M. W., et al. (2012). "Aggregative multicellularity evolved independently in the eukaryotic supergroup Rhizaria." Curr Biol 22(12): 1123-1127.
	Multicellular forms of life have evolved many times, independently giving rise to a diversity of organisms such as animals, plants, and fungi that together comprise the visible biosphere. Yet multicellular life is far more widespread among eukaryotes than just these three lineages. A particularly common form of multicellularity is a social aggregative fruiting lifestyle whereby individual cells associate to form a "fungus-like" sorocarp. This complex developmental process that requires the interaction of thousands of cells working in concert was made famous by the "cellular slime mold"Dictyostelium discoideum, which became an important model organism. Although sorocarpic protistan lineages have been identified in five of the major eukaryote groups, the ubiquitous and globally distributed species Guttulinopsis vulgaris has eluded proper classification. Here we demonstrate, by phylogenomic analyses of a 159-protein data set, that G. vulgaris is a member of Rhizaria and is thus the first member of this eukaryote supergroup known to be capable of aggregative multicellularity.

Boatti, L., et al. (2012). "Effects of nickel, chlorpyrifos and their mixture on the Dictyostelium discoideum proteome." Int J Mol Sci 13(12): 15679-15705.
	Mixtures of chemicals can have additive, synergistic or antagonistic interactions. We investigated the effects of the exposure to nickel, the organophosphate insecticide chlorpyrifos at effect concentrations (EC) of 25% and 50% and their binary mixture (Ec25 + EC25) on Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae based on lysosomal membrane stability (LMS). We treated D. discoideum with these compounds under controlled laboratory conditions and evaluated the changes in protein levels using a two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2DE) proteomic approach. Nickel treatment at EC25 induced changes in 14 protein spots, 12 of which were down-regulated. Treatment with nickel at EC50 resulted in changes in 15 spots, 10 of which were down-regulated. Treatment with chlorpyrifos at EC25 induced changes in six spots, all of which were down-regulated; treatment with chlorpyrifos at EC50 induced changes in 13 spots, five of which were down-regulated. The mixture corresponding to EC25 of each compound induced changes in 19 spots, 13 of which were down-regulated. The data together reveal that a different protein expression signature exists for each treatment, and that only a few proteins are modulated in multiple different treatments. For a simple binary mixture, the proteomic response does not allow for the identification of each toxicant. The protein spots that showed significant differences were identified by mass spectrometry, which revealed modulations of proteins involved in metal detoxification, stress adaptation, the oxidative stress response and other cellular processes.

Batsios, P., et al. (2012). "A lamin in lower eukaryotes?" Nucleus 3(3): 237-243.
	Lamins are the major components of the nuclear lamina and serve not only as a mechanical support, but are also involved in chromatin organization, epigenetic regulation, transcription and mitotic events. Despite these universal tasks, lamins have so far been found only in metazoans. Yet, recently we have identified Dictyostelium NE81 as the first lamin-like protein in a lower eukaryote. Based on the current knowledge, we draw a model for nuclear envelope organization in Dictyostelium in this Extra View and we review the experimental data that justified this classification. Furthermore we provide unpublished data underscoring the requirement of posttranslational CaaX-box processing for proper protein localization at the nuclear envelope. Sequence comparison of NE81 sequences from four Dictyostelia with bona fide lamins illustrates the evolutional relationship between these proteins. Under certain conditions these usually unicellular social amoebae congregate to form a multicellular body. We propose that the evolution of the lamin-like NE81 went along with the invention of multicellularity.

Banno, A., et al. (2012). "Subcellular localization of talin is regulated by inter-domain interactions." J Biol Chem 287(17): 13799-13812.
	Talin, which is composed of head (THD) and rod domains, plays an important role in cell adhesion events in diverse species including most metazoans and Dictyostelium discoideum. Talin is abundant in the cytosol; however, it mediates adhesion by associating with integrins in the plasma membrane where it forms a primary link between integrins and the actin cytoskeleton. Cells modulate the partitioning of talin between the plasma membrane and the cytosol to control cell adhesion. Here, we combine nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (NMR) with subcellular fractionation to characterize two distinct THD-rod domain interactions that control the interaction of talin with the actin cytoskeleton or its localization to the plasma membrane. An interaction between a discrete vinculin-binding region of the rod (VBS1/2a; Tln1(482-787)), and the THD restrains talin from interacting with the plasma membrane. Furthermore, we show that vinculin binding to VBS1/2a results in talin recruitment to the plasma membrane. Thus, we have structurally defined specific inter-domain interactions between THD and the talin rod domain that regulate the subcellular localization of talin.

Avesson, L., et al. (2012). "MicroRNAs in Amoebozoa: deep sequencing of the small RNA population in the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum reveals developmentally regulated microRNAs." Rna 18(10): 1771-1782.
	The RNA interference machinery has served as a guardian of eukaryotic genomes since the divergence from prokaryotes. Although the basic components have a shared origin, silencing pathways directed by small RNAs have evolved in diverse directions in different eukaryotic lineages. Micro (mi)RNAs regulate protein-coding genes and play vital roles in plants and animals, but less is known about their functions in other organisms. Here, we report, for the first time, deep sequencing of small RNAs from the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum. RNA from growing single-cell amoebae as well as from two multicellular developmental stages was sequenced. Computational analyses combined with experimental data reveal the expression of miRNAs, several of them exhibiting distinct expression patterns during development. To our knowledge, this is the first report of miRNAs in the Amoebozoa supergroup. We also show that overexpressed miRNA precursors generate miRNAs and, in most cases, miRNA* sequences, whose biogenesis is dependent on the Dicer-like protein DrnB, further supporting the presence of miRNAs in D. discoideum. In addition, we find miRNAs processed from hairpin structures originating from an intron as well as from a class of repetitive elements. We believe that these repetitive elements are sources for newly evolved miRNAs.

Asghar, A., et al. (2012). "Developmental gene regulation by an ancient intercellular communication system in social amoebae." Protist 163(1): 25-37.
	The social amoebae (Dictyostelia) use quorum sensing-like communication systems to coordinate the periodic transition from uni- to multicellularity. The monophyletic descent of the Dictyostelia provides a unique opportunity to study the origin and adaptive evolution of such intercellular communication systems. We determined that the ability of aggregation-competent cells to respond to the intercellular messenger glorin occurred in the most ancient taxa of the Dictyostelia. We show using Illumina sequencing technology that glorin mediates rapid changes in gene expression at the transition from vegetative growth to aggregation. We conclude that peptide-based communication is the most ancient form of intercellular signaling in the evolution of multicellularity in the social amoebae, but has been repeatedly replaced by other communication systems during the monophyletic evolution of the social amoebae. Glorin communication has parallels with quorum sensing in that the molecule diffuses into the field, stimulates gene expression in receptive cells and coordinates a population-wide response.

Artemenko, Y., et al. (2012). "Tumor suppressor Hippo/MST1 kinase mediates chemotaxis by regulating spreading and adhesion." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 109(34): 13632-13637.
	Chemotaxis depends on a network of parallel pathways that coordinate cytoskeletal events to bias cell movement along a chemoattractant gradient. Using a forward genetic screen in Dictyostelium discoideum, we identified the Ste20 kinase KrsB, a homolog of tumor suppressors Hippo and MST1/2, as a negative regulator of cell spreading and substrate attachment. The excessive adhesion of krsB(-) cells reduced directional movement and prolonged the streaming phase of multicellular aggregation. These phenotypes depended on an intact kinase domain and phosphorylation of a conserved threonine (T176) within the activation loop. Chemoattractants triggered a rapid, transient autophosphorylation of T176 in a heterotrimeric G protein-dependent and PI3K- and TorC2-independent manner. The active phosphorylated form of KrsB acts to decrease adhesion to the substrate. Taken together these studies suggest that cycling between active and inactive forms of KrsB may provide the dynamic regulation of cell adhesion needed for proper cell migration and chemotaxis. KrsB interacts genetically with another D. discoideum Hippo/MST homolog, KrsA, but the two genes are not functionally redundant. These studies show that Hippo/MST proteins, like the tumor suppressor PTEN and oncogenes Ras and PI3K, play a key role in cell morphological events in addition to their role in regulating cell growth.

Arhzaouy, K., et al. (2012). "Heteromeric p97/p97R155C complexes induce dominant negative changes in wild-type and autophagy 9-deficient Dictyostelium strains." PLoS One 7(10): e46879.
	Heterozygous mutations in the human VCP (p97) gene cause autosomal-dominant IBMPFD (inclusion body myopathy with early onset Paget's disease of bone and frontotemporal dementia), ALS14 (amyotrophic lateral sclerosis with or without frontotemporal dementia) and HSP (hereditary spastic paraplegia). Most prevalent is the R155C point mutation. We studied the function of p97 in the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum and have generated strains that ectopically express wild-type (p97) or mutant p97 (p97(R155C)) fused to RFP in AX2 wild-type and autophagy 9 knock-out (ATG9(KO)) cells. Native gel electrophoresis showed that both p97 and p97(R155C) assemble into hexamers. Co-immunoprecipitation studies revealed that endogenous p97 and p97(R155C)-RFP form heteromers. The mutant strains displayed changes in cell growth, phototaxis, development, proteasomal activity, ubiquitinylated proteins, and ATG8(LC3) indicating mis-regulation of multiple essential cellular processes. Additionally, immunofluorescence analysis revealed an increase of protein aggregates in ATG9(KO)/p97(R155C)-RFP and ATG9(KO) cells. They were positive for ubiquitin in both strains, however, solely immunoreactive for p97 in the ATG9(KO) mutant. A major finding is that the expression of p97(R155C)-RFP in the ATG9(KO) strain partially or fully rescued the pleiotropic phenotype. We also observed dose-dependent effects of p97 on several cellular processes. Based on findings in the single versus the double mutants we propose a novel mode of p97 interaction with the core autophagy protein ATG9 which is based on mutual inhibition.

Araki, Y., et al. (2012). "A surface glycoprotein indispensable for gamete fusion in the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum." Eukaryot Cell 11(5): 638-644.
	Sexual reproduction is essential for the maintenance of species in a wide variety of multicellular organisms, and even unicellular organisms that normally proliferate asexually possess a sexual cycle because of its contribution to increased genetic diversity. Information concerning the molecules involved in fertilization is accumulating for many species of the metazoan, plant, and fungal lineages, and the evolutionary consideration of sexual reproduction systems is now an interesting issue. Macrocyst formation in the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum is a sexual process in which cells become sexually mature under dark and submerged conditions and fuse with complementary mating-type cells. In the present study, we isolated D. discoideum insertional mutants defective in sexual cell fusion and identified the relevant gene, macA, which encodes a highly glycosylated, 2,041-amino-acid membrane protein (MacA). Although its overall similarity is restricted to proteins of unknown function within dictyostelids, it contains LamGL and discoidin domains, which are implicated in cell adhesion. The growth and development of macA-null mutants were indistinguishable from those of the parental strain. The overexpression of macA using the V18 promoter in a macA-null mutant completely restored its sexual defects. Although the macA gene encoded exactly the same protein in a complementary mating-type strain, it was expressed at a much lower level. These results suggest that MacA is indispensable for gamete interactions in D. discoideum, probably via cell adhesion. There is a possibility that it is controlled in a mating-type-dependent manner.

Araki, T. and J. G. Williams (2012). "Perturbations of the actin cytoskeleton activate a Dictyostelium STAT signalling pathway." Eur J Cell Biol 91(5): 420-425.
	The Dictyostelium transcription factor STATc is tyrosine phosphorylated and accumulates in the nucleus when cells are exposed either to hyper-osmotic stress or to the prestalk-inducing polyketide DIF-1. In the case of stress STAT activation is mediated by regulated dephosphorylation; whereby two serine residues on PTP3, the tyrosine phosphatase that de-activates STATc, become phosphorylated after exposure to stress so inhibiting enzymatic activity. We now show that the more highly regulated of the two PTP3 serine residues, S747, is also phosphorylated in response to DIF-1, suggesting a common activation mechanism. Hyper-osmotic stress causes a re-distribution of F-actin to the cortex, cell rounding and shrinkage and we show that DIF-1 induces a similar but transient F-actin re-distribution and rounding response. We also find that two mechanistically distinct inhibitors of actin polymerization, latrunculin A and cytochalasin A induce phosphorylation at S747 of PTP3 and activate STATc. We suggest that PTP3 phosphorylation, and consequent STATc activation, are regulated by changes in F-actin polymerization status during stress and DIF-induced cytoskeletal remodelling.

Araki, T., et al. (2012). "Identification of the kinase that activates a nonmetazoan STAT gives insights into the evolution of phosphotyrosine-SH2 domain signaling." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 109(28): E1931-1937.
	SH2 domains are integral to many animal signaling pathways. By interacting with specific phosphotyrosine residues, they provide regulatable protein-protein interaction domains. Dictyostelium is the only nonmetazoan with functionally characterized SH2 domains, but the cognate tyrosine kinases are unknown. There are no orthologs of the animal tyrosine kinases, but there are very many tyrosine kinase-like kinases (TKLs), a group of kinases which, despite their family name, are classified mainly as serine-threonine kinases. STATs are transcription factors that dimerize via phosphotyrosine-SH2 domain interactions. STATc is activated by phosphorylation on Tyr922 when cells are exposed to the prestalk inducer differentiation inducing factor (DIF-1), a chlorinated hexaphenone. We show that in a null mutant for Pyk2, a tyrosine-specific TKL, exposure to DIF-1 does not activate STATc. Conversely, overexpression of Pyk2 causes constitutive STATc activation. Pyk2 phosphorylates STATc on Tyr922 in vitro and complexes with STATc both in vitro and in vivo. This demonstration that a TKL directly activates a STAT has significant implications for understanding the evolutionary origins of SH2 domain-phosphotyrosine signaling. It also has mechanistic implications. Our previous work suggested that a predicted constitutive STATc tyrosine kinase activity is counterbalanced in vivo by the DIF-1-regulated activity of PTP3, a Tyr922 phosphatase. Here we show that the STATc-Pyk2 complex is formed constitutively by an interaction between the STATc SH2 domain and phosphotyrosine residues on Pyk2 that are generated by autophosphorylation. Also, as predicted, Pyk2 is constitutively active as a STATc kinase. This observation provides further evidence for this highly atypical, possibly ancestral, STAT regulation mechanism.

Amselem, G., et al. (2012). "A stochastic description of Dictyostelium chemotaxis." PLoS One 7(5): e37213.
	Chemotaxis, the directed motion of a cell toward a chemical source, plays a key role in many essential biological processes. Here, we derive a statistical model that quantitatively describes the chemotactic motion of eukaryotic cells in a chemical gradient. Our model is based on observations of the chemotactic motion of the social ameba Dictyostelium discoideum, a model organism for eukaryotic chemotaxis. A large number of cell trajectories in stationary, linear chemoattractant gradients is measured, using microfluidic tools in combination with automated cell tracking. We describe the directional motion as the interplay between deterministic and stochastic contributions based on a Langevin equation. The functional form of this equation is directly extracted from experimental data by angle-resolved conditional averages. It contains quadratic deterministic damping and multiplicative noise. In the presence of an external gradient, the deterministic part shows a clear angular dependence that takes the form of a force pointing in gradient direction. With increasing gradient steepness, this force passes through a maximum that coincides with maxima in both speed and directionality of the cells. The stochastic part, on the other hand, does not depend on the orientation of the directional cue and remains independent of the gradient magnitude. Numerical simulations of our probabilistic model yield quantitative agreement with the experimental distribution functions. Thus our model captures well the dynamics of chemotactic cells and can serve to quantify differences and similarities of different chemotactic eukaryotes. Finally, on the basis of our model, we can characterize the heterogeneity within a population of chemotactic cells.

Amselem, G., et al. (2012). "Control parameter description of eukaryotic chemotaxis." Phys Rev Lett 109(10): 108103.
	The chemotaxis of eukaryotic cells depends both on the average concentration of the chemoattractant and on the steepness of its gradient. For the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum, we test quantitatively the prediction by Ueda and Shibata [Biophys. J. 93, 11 (2007)] that the efficacy of chemotaxis depends on a single control parameter only, namely, the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR), determined by the stochastic fluctuations of (i) the binding of the chemoattractant molecule to the transmembrane receptor and (ii) the intracellular activation of the effector of the signaling cascade. For SNR < or approximately equal to 1, the theory captures the experimental findings well, while for larger SNR noise sources further downstream in the signaling pathway need to be taken into account.

Amaroli, A. and M. G. Chessa (2012). "Detection and characterisation of NAD(P)H-diaphorase activity in Dictyostelium discoideum cells (Protozoa)." Eur J Histochem 56(4): e47.
	In Dictyostelium discoideum (D. discoideum), compounds generating nitric oxide (NO) inhibit its aggregation and differentiation without altering cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) production. They do it by preventing initiation of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) pulses. Furthermore, these compounds stimulate adenosine diphosphate (ADP)-ribosylation of a 41 kDa cytosolic protein and regulate the glyceraldehyde-3-phospate dehydrogenase activity. Yet, although D. discoideum cells produce NO at a relatively constant rate at the onset of their developmental cycle, there is still no evidence of the presence of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) enzymes. In this work, we detect the nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase (NADPH-d) activity in D. discoideum and we characterise it by specific inhibitors and physical-chemical conditions that allegedly distinguish between NOS-related and -unrelated NADPH-d activity.

Zheng, J., et al. (2011). "Genetic analysis of anti-amoebae and anti-bacterial activities of the type VI secretion system in Vibrio cholerae." PLoS One 6(8): e23876.
	A type VI secretion system (T6SS) was recently shown to be required for full virulence of Vibrio cholerae O37 serogroup strain V52. In this study, we systematically mutagenized each individual gene in T6SS locus and characterized their functions based on expression and secretion of the hemolysin co-regulated protein (Hcp), virulence towards amoebae of Dictyostelium discoideum and killing of Escherichia coli bacterial cells. We group the 17 proteins characterized in the T6SS locus into four categories: twelve (VipA, VipB, VCA0109-VCA0115, ClpV, VCA0119, and VasK) are essential for Hcp secretion and bacterial virulence, and thus likely function as structural components of the apparatus; two (VasH and VCA0122) are regulators that are required for T6SS gene expression and virulence; another two, VCA0121 and valine-glycine repeat protein G 3 (VgrG-3), are not essential for Hcp expression, secretion or bacterial virulence, and their functions are unknown; the last group is represented by VCA0118, which is not required for Hcp expression or secretion but still plays a role in both amoebae and bacterial killing and may therefore be an effector protein. We also showed that the clpV gene product is required for Dictyostelium virulence but is less important for killing E. coli. In addition, one vgrG gene (vgrG-2) outside of the T6SS gene cluster was required for bacterial killing but another (vgrG-1) was not. However, a bacterial killing defect was observed when vgrG-1 and vgrG-3 were both deleted. Several genes encoded in the same putative operon as vgrG-1 and vgrG-2 also contribute to virulence toward Dictyostelium but have a smaller effect on bacterial killing. Our results provide new insights into the functional requirements of V. cholerae's T6SS in the context of secretion as well as killing of bacterial and eukaryotic phagocytic cells.

Zantl, R. and E. Horn (2011). "Chemotaxis of slow migrating mammalian cells analysed by video microscopy." Methods Mol Biol 769: 191-203.
	We present a microfabricated chamber designed for visualising and quantifying the chemotaxis of slow-migrating adherent mammalian cells such as cancer and endothelial cells. Most of the existing solutions for the investigation of chemotaxis are limited to fast migrating cells such as leukocytes or Dictyostelium discoideum. Here, we describe the details of an assay using the mu-Slide Chemotaxis to investigate the chemotactic response of human umbilical vein endothelial cells to a gradient of human vascular endothelial growth factor 165. In combination with phase contrast video microscopy and cell tracking, the trajectories of all single cells migrating in temporally stable gradients are derived. The resulting migration data are displayed and analysed in detail by several different parameters for quantifying chemotaxis. We found that with this tool the potential of chemoattractants to migration of mammalian cells as well as the impact of inhibitors to chemotaxis and migration can be evaluated.

Yu, B., et al. (2011). "Spliceosomal genes in the D. discoideum genome: a comparison with those in H. sapiens, D. melanogaster, A. thaliana and S. cerevisiae." Protein Cell 2(5): 395-409.
	Little is known about pre-mRNA splicing in Dictyostelium discoideum although its genome has been completely sequenced. Our analysis suggests that pre-mRNA splicing plays an important role in D. discoideum gene expression as two thirds of its genes contain at least one intron. Ongoing curation of the genome to date has revealed 40 genes in D. discoideum with clear evidence of alternative splicing, supporting the existence of alternative splicing in this unicellular organism. We identified 160 candidate U2-type spliceosomal proteins and related factors in D. discoideum based on 264 known human genes involved in splicing. Spliceosomal small ribonucleoproteins (snRNPs), PRP19 complex proteins and late-acting proteins are highly conserved in D. discoideum and throughout the metazoa. In non-snRNP and hnRNP families, D. discoideum orthologs are closer to those in A. thaliana, D. melanogaster and H. sapiens than to their counterparts in S. cerevisiae. Several splicing regulators, including SR proteins and CUG-binding proteins, were found in D. discoideum, but not in yeast. Our comprehensive catalog of spliceosomal proteins provides useful information for future studies of splicing in D. discoideum where the efficient genetic and biochemical manipulation will also further our general understanding of pre-mRNA splicing.

Yde, P., et al. (2011). "Modeling the NF-kappaB mediated inflammatory response predicts cytokine waves in tissue." BMC Syst Biol 5: 115.
	BACKGROUND: Waves propagating in "excitable media" is a reliable way to transmit signals in space. A fascinating example where living cells comprise such a medium is Dictyostelium D. which propagates waves of chemoattractant to attract distant cells. While neutrophils chemotax in a similar fashion as Dictyostelium D., it is unclear if chemoattractant waves exist in mammalian tissues and what mechanisms could propagate them. RESULTS: We propose that chemoattractant cytokine waves may naturally develop as a result of NF-kappaB response. Using a heuristic mathematical model of NF-kappaB-like circuits coupled in space we show that the known characteristics of NF-kappaB response favor cytokine waves. CONCLUSIONS: While the propagating wave of cytokines is generally beneficial for inflammation resolution, our model predicts that there exist special conditions that can cause chronic inflammation and re-occurrence of acute inflammatory response.

Yang, L., et al. (2011). "Pattern differentiation in co-culture biofilms formed by Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa." FEMS Immunol Med Microbiol 62(3): 339-347.
	Biofilm infections may not simply be the result of colonization by one bacterium, but rather the consequence of pathogenic contributions from several bacteria. Interspecies interactions of different organisms in mixed-species biofilms remain largely unexplained, but knowledge of these is very important for understanding of biofilm physiology and the treatment of biofilm-related infectious diseases. Here, we have investigated interactions of two of the major bacterial species of cystic fibrosis lung microbial communities -Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Staphylococcus aureus- when grown in co-culture biofilms. By growing co-culture biofilms of S. aureus with P. aeruginosa mutants in a flow-chamber system and observing them using confocal laser scanning microscopy, we show that wild-type P. aeruginosa PAO1 facilitates S. aureus microcolony formation. In contrast, P. aeruginosa mucA and rpoN mutants do not facilitate S. aureus microcolony formation and tend to outcompete S. aureus in co-culture biofilms. Further investigations reveal that extracellular DNA (eDNA) plays an important role in S. aureus microcolony formation and that P. aeruginosa type IV pili are required for this process, probably through their ability to bind to eDNA. Furthermore, P. aeruginosa is able to protect S. aureus against Dictyostelium discoideum phagocytosis in co-culture biofilms.

Yamada, Y., et al. (2011). "DIF-1 regulates Dictyostelium basal disc differentiation by inducing the nuclear accumulation of a bZIP transcription factor." Dev Biol 354(1): 77-86.
	Exposure of monolayer Dictyostelium cells to the signalling polyketide DIF-1 causes DimB, a bZIPtranscription factor, to accumulate in the nucleus where it induces prestalk gene expression. Here we analyse DimB signalling during normal development. In slugs DimB is specifically nuclear enriched in the pstB cells; a cluster of vital dye-staining cells located on the ventral surface of the posterior, prespore region. PstB cells move at culmination, to form the lower cup and the outer basal disc of the fruiting body, and DimB retains a high nuclear concentration in both these tissues. In a dimB null (dimB-) strain there are very few pstB or lower cup cells, as detected by neutral red staining, and it is known that the outer basal disc is absent or much reduced. In the dimB- strain ecmB, a marker of pstB differentiation, is not DIF inducible. Furthermore, ChIP analysis shows that DimB binds to the ecmB promoter in DIF-induced cells. These results suggest that the differentiation of pstB cells is caused by a high perceived level of DIF-1 signalling, leading to nuclear localization of DimB and direct activation of cell type-specific gene expression.

Xu, X. and T. Jin (2011). "Imaging G-protein coupled receptor (GPCR)-mediated signaling events that control chemotaxis of Dictyostelium discoideum." J Vis Exp(55).
	Many eukaryotic cells can detect gradients of chemical signals in their environments and migrate accordingly (1). This guided cell migration is referred as chemotaxis, which is essential for various cells to carry out their functions such as trafficking of immune cells and patterning of neuronal cells (2, 3). A large family of G-protein coupled receptors (GPCRs) detects variable small peptides, known as chemokines, to direct cell migration in vivo (4). The final goal of chemotaxis research is to understand how a GPCR machinery senses chemokine gradients and controls signaling events leading to chemotaxis. To this end, we use imaging techniques to monitor, in real time, spatiotemporal concentrations of chemoattractants, cell movement in a gradient of chemoattractant, GPCR mediated activation of heterotrimeric G-protein, and intracellular signaling events involved in chemotaxis of eukaryotic cells (5-8). The simple eukaryotic organism, Dictyostelium discoideum, displays chemotaxic behaviors that are similar to those of leukocytes, and D. discoideum is a key model system for studying eukaryotic chemotaxis. As free-living amoebae, D. discoideum cells divide in rich medium. Upon starvation, cells enter a developmental program in which they aggregate through cAMP-mediated chemotaxis to form multicullular structures. Many components involved in chemotaxis to cAMP have been identified in D. discoideum. The binding of cAMP to a GPCR (cAR1) induces dissociation of heterotrimeric G-proteins into Ggamma and Gbetagamma subunits (7, 9, 10). Gbetagamma subunits activate Ras, which in turn activates PI3K, converting PIP(2;) into PIP(3;) on the cell membrane (11-13). PIP(3;) serve as binding sites for proteins with pleckstrin Homology (PH) domains, thus recruiting these proteins to the membrane (14, 15). Activation of cAR1 receptors also controls the membrane associations of PTEN, which dephosphorylates PIP(3;) to PIP(2;)(16, 17). The molecular mechanisms are evolutionarily conserved in chemokine GPCR-mediated chemotaxis of human cells such as neutrophils (18). We present following methods for studying chemotaxis of D. discoideum cells. 1. Preparation of chemotactic component cells. 2. Imaging chemotaxis of cells in a cAMP gradient. 3. Monitoring a GPCR induced activation of heterotrimeric G-protein in single live cells. 4. Imaging chemoattractant-triggered dynamic PIP(3;) responses in single live cells in real time. Our developed imaging methods can be applied to study chemotaxis of human leukocytes.

Wong, C. C., et al. (2011). "Defective ribosome assembly in Shwachman-Diamond syndrome." Blood 118(16): 4305-4312.
	Shwachman-Diamond syndrome (SDS), a recessive leukemia predisposition disorder characterized by bone marrow failure, exocrine pancreatic insufficiency, skeletal abnormalities and poor growth, is caused by mutations in the highly conserved SBDS gene. Here, we test the hypothesis that defective ribosome biogenesis underlies the pathogenesis of SDS. We create conditional mutants in the essential SBDS ortholog of the ancient eukaryote Dictyostelium discoideum using temperature-sensitive, self-splicing inteins, showing that mutant cells fail to grow at the restrictive temperature because ribosomal subunit joining is markedly impaired. Remarkably, wild type human SBDS complements the growth and ribosome assembly defects in mutant Dictyostelium cells, but disease-associated human SBDS variants are defective. SBDS directly interacts with the GTPase elongation factor-like 1 (EFL1) on nascent 60S subunits in vivo and together they catalyze eviction of the ribosome antiassociation factor eukaryotic initiation factor 6 (eIF6), a prerequisite for the translational activation of ribosomes. Importantly, lymphoblasts from SDS patients harbor a striking defect in ribosomal subunit joining whose magnitude is inversely proportional to the level of SBDS protein. These findings in Dictyostelium and SDS patient cells provide compelling support for the hypothesis that SDS is a ribosomopathy caused by corruption of an essential cytoplasmic step in 60S subunit maturation.

Wojtkowska, M., et al. (2011). "Phylogenetic Analysis of Mitochondrial Outer Membrane ss-barrel Channels." Genome Biol Evol.
	Transport of molecules across mitochondrial outer membrane is pivotal for a proper function of mitochondria. The transport pathways across the membrane are formed by ion channels that participate in metabolite exchange between mitochondria and cytoplasm (VDAC) as well as in import of proteins encoded by nuclear genes (Tom40, Sam50/Tob55). VDAC, Tom40, and Sam50/Tob55 are present in all eukaryotic organisms, encoded in the nuclear genome and have ss-barrel topology. We have compiled datasets of these protein sequences and studied their phylogenetic relationships with a special focus on the position of Amoebozoa. Additionally, we identified these protein-coding genes in Acanthamoeba castellanii and Dictyostelium discoideum to complement our dataset and verify the phylogenetic position of these model organisms. Our analysis show that mitochondrial beta-barrel channels from Archaeplastida (plants) and Opisthokonta (animals and fungi) experienced many duplication events that resulted in multiple paralogous isoforms and form well-defined monophyletic clades that match the current model of eukaryotic evolution. However, in representatives of Amoebozoa, Chromalveolata, and Excavata (former Protista) they do not form clearly distinguishable clades, although they locate basally to the plant and algae branches. In most cases they do not posses paralogs and their sequences appear to have evolved quickly or degenerated. Consequently, the obtained phylogenies of mitochondrial outer membrane ss-channels do not entirely reflect the recent eukaryotic classification system involving the six supergroups: Chromalveolata, Excavata, Archaeplastida, Rhizaria, Amoebozoa, and Opisthokonta.

Winckler, T., et al. (2011). "Dictyostelium transfer RNA gene-targeting retrotransposons: Studying mobile element-host interactions in a compact genome." Mob Genet Elements 1(2): 145-150.
	The model species of social amoebae, Dictyostelium discoideum, has a compact genome consisting of about two thirds protein-coding regions, with intergenic regions that are rarely larger than 1,000 bp. We hypothesize that the haploid state of D. discoideum cells provides defense against the amplification of mobile elements whose transposition activities would otherwise lead to the accumulation of heterozygous, potentially lethal mutations in diploid populations. We further speculate that complex transposon clusters found on D. discoideum chromosomes do not a priori result from integration preferences of these transposons, but that the clusters instead result from negative selection against cells harboring insertional mutations in genes. D. discoideum cells contain a fraction of retrotransposons that are found in the close vicinity of tRNA genes. Growing evidence suggests that these retrotransposons use active recognition mechanisms to determine suitable integration sites. However, the question remains whether these retrotransposons also cause insertional mutagenesis of genes, resulting in their enrichment at tRNA genes, which are relatively safe sites in euchromatic regions. Recently developed in vivo retrotransposition assays will allow a detailed, genome-wide analysis of de novo integration events in the D. discoideum genome.

Wiegand, S., et al. (2011). "Efficient generation of gene knockout plasmids for Dictyostelium discoideum using one-step cloning." Genomics 97(5): 321-325.
	The amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum is a well-established model organism for studying numerous aspects of cellular and developmental functions. Its rather small (~34Mb) chromosomal genome and the high efficiency of gene disruption by homologous recombination have enabled researchers to dissect various specific gene functions. We describe here the use of one-step cloning for the fast and efficient generation of deletion vectors that are produced in a one-step reaction by inserting two PCR products into an organism-specific, generic acceptor system. This worked efficiently for all 16 tested constructs directed against genes in the amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum. Saving cost and time, the used protocol represents a significant advancement in the generation of such plasmids compared to the conventionally applied restriction enzyme/ligation approach. Using appropriate selection markers, similar systems could also be useful in other organisms, where genes can be knocked out by homologous recombination.

Weizenmann, M., et al. (2011). "Kinetic characterization and gene expression of adenosine deaminase in intact trophozoites of Trichomonas vaginalis." FEMS Microbiol Lett 319(2): 115-124.
	Trichomonas vaginalis is a parasite that resides in the human urogenital tract and causes trichomonosis, the most prevalent nonviral sexually transmitted disease. Nucleoside triphosphate diphosphohydrolase (NTPDase), which hydrolyzes extracellular di- and triphosphate nucleotides, and ecto-5'-nucleotidase, which hydrolyzes AMP, have been characterized in T. vaginalis. The aim of this study was to characterize the adenosine deaminase (ADA) activity in intact trophozoites of T. vaginalis. A strong inhibition in adenosine deamination was observed in the presence of calcium and magnesium, which was prevented by EDTA. The apparent K(M) value for adenosine was 1.13 +/- 0.07mM. The calculated V(max) was 2.61 +/- 0.054 nmol NH(3) min(-1) mg(-1) protein. Adenosine deamination was inhibited in the presence of erythro-9-(2-hydroxy-3-nonyl)adenine. Semi-quantitative reverse transcriptase-PCR experiments were performed and both ADA-related genes ada(125) and ada(231) mRNA were expressed, although ada(231) in higher quantity when compared with the ada(125) : alpha-tubulin ratio. Furthermore, a phylogenetic analysis showed that the T. vaginalis sequences formed a clade with Entamoeba histolytica and Dictyostelium discoideum sequences, and it strongly suggests homologous functions in the T. vaginalis genome. The presence of ADA activity in T. vaginalis may be important to modulate the adenosine/inosine levels during infection and, consequently, to maintain the anti-inflammatory properties through different nucleoside-signalling mechanisms.

Wang, Z. A., et al. (2011). "Prolyl hydroxylation- and glycosylation-dependent functions of Skp1 in O2-regulated development of Dictyostelium." Dev Biol 349(2): 283-295.
	O(2) regulates multicellular development of the social amoeba Dictyostelium, suggesting it may serve as an important cue in its native soil environment. Dictyostelium expresses an HIFalpha-type prolyl 4-hydroxylase (P4H1) whose levels affect the O(2)-threshold for culmination implicating it as a direct O(2)-sensor, as in animals. But Dictyostelium lacks HIFalpha, a mediator of animal prolyl 4-hydroxylase signaling, and P4H1 can hydroxylate Pro143 of Skp1, a subunit of E3(SCF)ubiquitin-ligases. Skp1 hydroxyproline then becomes the target of five sequential glycosyltransferase reactions that modulate the O(2)-signal. Here we show that genetically induced changes in Skp1 levels also affect the O(2)-threshold, in opposite direction to that of the modification enzymes suggesting that the latter reduce Skp1 activity. Consistent with this, overexpressed Skp1 is poorly hydroxylated and Skp1 is the only P4H1 substrate detectable in extracts. Effects of Pro143 mutations, and of combinations of Skp1 and enzyme level perturbations, are consistent with pathway modulation of Skp1 activity. However, some effects were not mirrored by changes in modification of the bulk Skp1 pool, implicating a Skp1 subpopulation and possibly additional unknown factors. Altered Skp1 levels also affected other developmental transitions in a modification-dependent fashion. Whereas hydroxylation of animal HIFalpha results in its polyubiquitination and proteasomal degradation, Dictyostelium Skp1 levels were little affected by its modification status. These data indicate that Skp1 and possibly E3(SCF)ubiquitin-ligase activity modulate O(2)-dependent culmination and other developmental processes, and at least partially mediate the action of the hydroxylation/glycosylation pathway in O(2)-sensing.

Wang, Y., et al. (2011). "Dictyostelium huntingtin controls chemotaxis and cytokinesis through the regulation of myosin II phosphorylation." Mol Biol Cell 22(13): 2270-2281.
	Abnormalities in the huntingtin protein (Htt) are associated with Huntington's disease. Despite its importance, the function of Htt is largely unknown. We show that Htt is required for normal chemotaxis and cytokinesis in Dictyostelium discoideum. Cells lacking Htt showed slower migration toward the chemoattractant cAMP and contained lower levels of cortical myosin II, which is likely due to defects in dephosphorylation of myosin II mediated by protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A). htt(-) cells also failed to maintain myosin II in the cortex of the cleavage furrow, generating unseparated daughter cells connected through a thin cytoplasmic bridge. Furthermore, similar to Dictyostelium htt(-) cells, siRNA-mediated knockdown of human HTT also decreased the PP2A activity in HeLa cells. Our data indicate that Htt regulates the phosphorylation status of myosin II during chemotaxis and cytokinesis through PP2A.

Wang, Y., et al. (2011). "Signaling mechanisms for chemotaxis." Dev Growth Differ 53(4): 495-502.
	Cells recognize external chemical gradients and translate these environmental cues into amplified intracellular signaling that results in elongated cell shape, actin polymerization toward the leading edge, and movement along the gradient. Mechanisms underlying chemotaxis are conserved evolutionarily from Dictyostelium amoeba to mammalian neutrophils. Recent studies have uncovered several parallel intracellular signaling pathways that crosstalk in chemotaxing cells. Here, we review these signaling mechanisms in Dictyostelium discoideum.

Walk, A., et al. (2011). "Lipopolysaccharide enhances bactericidal activity in Dictyostelium discoideum cells." Dev Comp Immunol 35(8): 850-856.
	Innate immune cells respond to invading microbes upon detection of pathogen-associated molecular patterns (PAMPS). PAMP-recognition machinery is evolutionarily conserved, allowing for characterization in model organisms. The model organism Dictyostelium discoideum can exist as single-celled amoebae, which phagocytize bacteria for nutrients. Although D. discoideum is used extensively to study phagocytosis, it has not been determined if D. discoideum detects bacterial PAMPs using pattern-recognition machinery. Here we show that D. discoideum mounts responses against the bacterial cell wall PAMP, lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Upon treatment with LPS or its active component Lipid A, D. discoideum cells more efficiently clear phagocytized bacteria. LPS-enhanced bactericidal activity appears dependent both on MAPK signaling pathways as well as on the D. discoideum toll/interleukin-1 receptor domain-containing protein, TirA. These findings indicate that pattern-recognition machinery required to detect and respond to bacterial PAMPs may be conserved in D. discoideum.

Vlahou, G., et al. (2011). "The Ras related GTPase Miro is not required for mitochondrial transport in Dictyostelium discoideum." Eur J Cell Biol 90(4): 342-355.
	Ras-related GTPases of the Miro family have been implicated in mitochondrial homeostasis and microtubule-dependent transport. They consist of two GTP-binding domains separated by calcium-binding motifs and of a C-terminal transmembrane domain that targets the protein to the outer mitochondrial membrane. We disrupted the single Miro-encoding gene in Dictyostelium discoideum and observed a substantial growth defect that we attribute to a decreased mitochondrial mass and cellular ATP content. However, mutant cells even showed an increased rate of oxygen consumption, while glucose consumption, mitochondrial transmembrane potential and production of reactive oxygen species were unaltered. Processes characteristic of the multicellular stage of the D. discoideum life cycle were also unaltered. Although mitochondria occasionally use microtubules for transport in D. discoideum, their size and distribution were not visibly affected. We found Miro in all branches of the eukaryotic tree with the exception of a few protist lineages (mainly those lacking typical mitochondria). Trypanosomatids and ciliates possess structurally unique homologs lacking the N-terminal or the C-terminal GTPase domain, respectively. We propose that in D. discoideum, as in yeasts and plants, Miro plays roles in mitochondrial homeostasis, but the ability to build a complex that regulates its association to kinesin for microtubule-dependent transport probably arose in metazoans.

Vinke, F. P., et al. (2011). "The multiple facets of the Golgi reassembly stacking proteins." Biochem J 433(3): 423-433.
	The mammalian GRASPs (Golgi reassembly stacking proteins) GRASP65 and GRASP55 were first discovered more than a decade ago as factors involved in the stacking of Golgi cisternae. Since then, orthologues have been identified in many different organisms and GRASPs have been assigned new roles that may seem disconnected. In vitro, GRASPs have been shown to have the biochemical properties of Golgi stacking factors, but the jury is still out as to whether they act as such in vivo. In mammalian cells, GRASP65 and GRASP55 are required for formation of the Golgi ribbon, a structure which is fragmented in mitosis owing to the phosphorylation of a number of serine and threonine residues situated in its C-terminus. Golgi ribbon unlinking is in turn shown to be part of a mitotic checkpoint. GRASP65 also seems to be the key target of signalling events leading to re-orientation of the Golgi during cell migration and its breakdown during apoptosis. Interestingly, the Golgi ribbon is not a feature of lower eukaryotes, yet a GRASP homologue is present in the genome of Encephalitozoon cuniculi, suggesting they have other roles. GRASPs have no identified function in bulk anterograde protein transport along the secretory pathway, but some cargo-specific trafficking roles for GRASPs have been discovered. Furthermore, GRASP orthologues have recently been shown to mediate the unconventional secretion of the cytoplasmic proteins AcbA/Acb1, in both Dictyostelium discoideum and yeast, and the Golgi bypass of a number of transmembrane proteins during Drosophila development. In the present paper, we review the multiple roles of GRASPs.

Veltman, D. M., et al. (2011). "Functional analysis of Dictyostelium IBARa reveals a conserved role of the I-BAR domain in endocytosis." Biochem J 436(1): 45-52.
	I-BAR (inverse-Bin/amphiphysin/Rvs)-domain-containing proteins such as IRSp53 (insulin receptor substrate of 53 kDa) associate with outwardly curved membranes and connect them to proteins involved in actin dynamics. Research on I-BAR proteins has focussed on possible roles in filopod and lamellipod formation, but their full physiological function remains unclear. The social amoeba Dictyostelium encodes a single I-BAR/SH3 (where SH3 is Src homology 3) protein, called IBARa, along with homologues of proteins that interact with IRSp53 family proteins in mammalian cells, providing an excellent model to study its cellular function. Disruption of the gene encoding IBARa leads to a mild defect in development, but filopod and pseudopod dynamics are unaffected. Furthermore, ectopically expressed IBARa does not induce filopod formation and does not localize to filopods. Instead, IBARa associates with clathrin puncta immediately before they are endocytosed. This role is conserved: human BAIAP2L2 (brain-specific angiogenesis inhibitor 1-associated protein 2-like 2) also tightly co-localizes with clathrin plaques, although its homologues IRSp53 and IRTKS (insulin receptor tyrosine kinase substrate) associate with other punctate structures. The results from the present study suggest that I-BAR-containing proteins help generate the membrane curvature required for endocytosis and implies an unexpected role for IRSp53 family proteins in vesicle trafficking.

Velazquez, F., et al. (2011). "Identification of a eukaryotic reductive dechlorinase and characterization of its mechanism of action on its natural substrate." Chem Biol 18(10): 1252-1260.
	Chlorinated compounds are important environmental pollutants whose biodegradation may be limited by inefficient dechlorinating enzymes. Dictyostelium amoebae produce a chlorinated alkyl phenone called DIF which induces stalk cell differentiation during their multicellular development. Here we describe the identification of DIF dechlorinase. DIF dechlorinase is active when expressed in bacteria, and activity is lost from Dictyostelium cells when its gene, drcA, is knocked out. It has a K(m) for DIF of 88 nM and K(cat) of 6.7 s(-1). DrcA is related to glutathione S-transferases, but with a key asparagine-to-cysteine substitution in the catalytic pocket. When this change is reversed, the enzyme reverts to a glutathione S-transferase, thus suggesting a catalytic mechanism. DrcA offers new possibilities for the rational design of bioremediation strategies.

Veeranki, S., et al. (2011). "LKB1 regulates development and the stress response in Dictyostelium." Dev Biol 360(2): 351-357.
	The serine/threonine kinase LKB1 is a master kinase that regulates a number of critical events such as cell transformation, polarization, development, stress response, and energy metabolism in metazoa. After multiple unsuccessful attempts of generating Dictyostelium lkb1-null cells, an RNAi-based knockdown approach proved effective. Depletion of lkb1 with a knockdown construct displayed severe reduction in prespore cell differentiation and precocious induction of prestalk cells, which were reminiscent of cells lacking GSK3. Similar to gsk3(-) cells, lkb1 depleted cells displayed lower GSK3 activity than wild type cells during development and compromised cAMP-mediated inhibition of the DIF-1 mediated ecmB induction. In response to stress insult, the kinase activity of LKB1, but not that of GSK3, increased. Therefore, LKB1 positively functions at the upstream of GSK3 during development and responds to stress insults independently from GSK3.

van der Wel, H., et al. (2011). "Requirements for Skp1 processing by cytosolic prolyl 4(trans)-hydroxylase and alpha-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase enzymes involved in O signaling in dictyostelium." Biochemistry 50(10): 1700-1713.
	The social amoeba Dictyostelium expresses a hypoxia inducible factor-alpha (HIFalpha) type prolyl 4-hydroxylase (P4H1) and an alpha-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase (Gnt1) that sequentially modify proline-143 of Skp1, a subunit of the SCF (Skp1/Cullin/F-box protein) class of E3 ubiquitin ligases. Prior genetic studies have implicated Skp1 and its modification by these enzymes in O(2) regulation of development, suggesting the existence of an ancient O(2)-sensing mechanism related to modification of the transcription factor HIFalpha by animal prolyl 4-hydroxylases (PHDs). To better understand the role of Skp1 in P4H1-dependent O(2) signaling, biochemical and biophysical studies were conducted to characterize the reaction product and the basis of Skp1 substrate selection by P4H1 and Gnt1. (1)H NMR demonstrated formation of 4(trans)-hydroxyproline as previously found for HIFalpha, and highly purified P4H1 was inhibited by Krebs cycle intermediates and other compounds that affect animal P4Hs. However, in contrast to hydroxylation of HIFalpha by PHDs, P4H1 depended on features of full-length Skp1, based on truncation, mutagenesis, and competitive inhibition studies. These features are conserved during animal evolution, as even mammalian Skp1, which lacks the target proline, became a good substrate upon its restoration. P4H1 recognition may depend on features conserved for SCF complex formation as heterodimerization with an F-box protein blocked Skp1 hydroxylation. The hydroxyproline-capping enzyme Gnt1 exhibited similar requirements for Skp1 as a substrate. These and other findings support a model in which the protist P4H1 conditionally hydroxylates Skp1 of E3(SCF)ubiquitin ligases to control half-lives of multiple targets, rather than the mechanism of animal PHDs where individual proteins are hydroxylated leading to ubiquitination by the evolutionarily related E3(VBC)ubiquitin ligases.

Valente, M., et al. (2011). "Expression, purification, electron microscopy, N-glycosylation mutagenesis and molecular modeling of human P2X4 and Dictyostelium discoideum P2XA." Biochim Biophys Acta 1808(12): 2859-2866.
	The recent publication of the apo-, closed-state 3D crystal structure of zebrafish (zf) P2X4.1 has not only revolutionized the P2X research field, but also highlighted the need for further crystal structures, of receptors in different activation states, so that we can gain a complete molecular understanding of ion channel function. zfP2X4.1 was selected as a 3D-crystallization candidate because of its ability to form stable trimers in detergent solution, and purified from over-expression in baculovirus-infected Spodoptera frugiperda (Sf9) insect cells. In this work, we have used a similar approach to express both human P2X4 (hP2X4) and Dictyostelium discoideum P2XA (DdP2XA) in Sf9 cells. Although hP2X4 did not form stable trimers in detergent solution, both receptors bound to ATP-coupled resins, indicating that their extracellular domains were folded correctly. DdP2XA formed strong trimers in detergent solution, and we were able to selectively purify trimers using preparative electrophoresis, and build a 21A-resolution 3D structure using transmission electron microscopy and single particle analysis. Although the structure of DdP2XA possessed similar dimensions to those of the previously determined low-resolution hP2X4 structure and the zfP2X4.1 crystal structure, N-glycosylation mutagenesis and molecular modeling indicated differences between N-glycan usage and predicted accessibility in models of DdP2XA based on the zfP2X4.1 crystal structure. Our data demonstrate that DdP2XA expressed in insect cells retains ATP-binding capacity after detergent solubilization, is an ideal candidate for structural study, and possesses a significantly different 3D structure to that of both hP2X4 and zfP2X4.1.

Vadell, E. M., et al. (2011). "New species of dictyostelids from Patagonia and Tierra del Fuego, Argentina." Mycologia 103(1): 101-117.
	In late Jan and early Feb 2005 samples for isolation of dictyostelid cellular slime molds (dictyostelids) were collected in five different provinces and from six national parks (all located 39-55 degrees S) in Patagonia and Tierra del Fuego, Argentina. Southern beech (Nothofagus) forests represented the primary vegetation type investigated, but some samples were obtained from Patagonian steppe, alpine meadows, Valdivian temperate rainforests and coniferous forests dominated by Araucaria, Austrocedrus and Fitzroya. Among the dictyostelids isolated from the samples we collected were seven species new to science. These species (Dictyostelium austroandinum, D. chordatum, D. fasciculoideum, D. gargantuum, D. leptosomopsis, D. valdivianum and Polysphondylium patagonicum) are described herein on the basis of both morphology and molecular (SSU rDNA) data. One of the new species, D. gargantuum, is one of the largest representatives of the group reported to date. Another unusual species, D. chordatum, produces long interwoven sorocarps that do not appear to respond to a spacing gas similar to the condition first noted in D. implicatum.

Uyeda, T. Q., et al. (2011). "Stretching actin filaments within cells enhances their affinity for the myosin II motor domain." PLoS One 6(10): e26200.
	To test the hypothesis that the myosin II motor domain (S1) preferentially binds to specific subsets of actin filaments in vivo, we expressed GFP-fused S1 with mutations that enhanced its affinity for actin in Dictyostelium cells. Consistent with the hypothesis, the GFP-S1 mutants were localized along specific portions of the cell cortex. Comparison with rhodamine-phalloidin staining in fixed cells demonstrated that the GFP-S1 probes preferentially bound to actin filaments in the rear cortex and cleavage furrows, where actin filaments are stretched by interaction with endogenous myosin II filaments. The GFP-S1 probes were similarly enriched in the cortex stretched passively by traction forces in the absence of myosin II or by external forces using a microcapillary. The preferential binding of GFP-S1 mutants to stretched actin filaments did not depend on cortexillin I or PTEN, two proteins previously implicated in the recruitment of myosin II filaments to stretched cortex. These results suggested that it is the stretching of the actin filaments itself that increases their affinity for the myosin II motor domain. In contrast, the GFP-fused myosin I motor domain did not localize to stretched actin filaments, which suggests different preferences of the motor domains for different structures of actin filaments play a role in distinct intracellular localizations of myosin I and II. We propose a scheme in which the stretching of actin filaments, the preferential binding of myosin II filaments to stretched actin filaments, and myosin II-dependent contraction form a positive feedback loop that contributes to the stabilization of cell polarity and to the responsiveness of the cells to external mechanical stimuli.

Urushihara, H. (2011). "Social amoeba and the origin of multicellularity." Dev Growth Differ 53(4): 451.
	
Uchikawa, T., et al. (2011). "Origin and function of the stalk-cell vacuole in Dictyostelium." Dev Biol 352(1): 48-57.
	Large vacuoles are characteristic of plant and fungal cells, and their origin has long attracted interest. The cellular slime mould provides a unique opportunity to study the de novo formation of vacuoles because, in its life cycle, a subset of the highly motile animal-like cells (prestalk cells) rapidly develops a single large vacuole and cellulosic cell wall to become plant-like cells (stalk cells). Here we describe the origin and process of vacuole formation using live-imaging of Dictyostelium cells expressing GFP-tagged ammonium transporter A (AmtA-GFP), which was found to reside on the membrane of stalk-cell vacuoles. We show that stalk-cell vacuoles originate from acidic vesicles and autophagosomes, which fuse to form autolysosomes. Their repeated fusion and expansion accompanied by concomitant cell wall formation enable the stalk cells to rapidly develop turgor pressure necessary to make the rigid stalk to hold the spores aloft. Contractile vacuoles, which are rich in H(+)-ATPase as in plant vacuoles, remained separate from these vacuoles. We further argue that AmtA may play an important role in the control of stalk-cell differentiation by modulating the pH of autolysosomes.

Tsujioka, M. (2011). "Cell migration in multicellular environments." Dev Growth Differ 53(4): 528-537.
	Most experiments observing cell migration use planar plastic or glass surfaces despite these conditions being considerably different from physiological ones. On such planar surfaces, cells take a dorsal-ventral polarity to move two-dimensionally. Cells in tissues, however, interact with surrounding cells and the extracellular matrix such that they transverse three-dimensionally. For this reason, three-dimensional matrices have become more and more popular for cell migration experiments. In addition, recent developments in imaging techniques have enabled high resolution observations of in vivo cell migration. The combination of three-dimensional matrices and such imaging techniques has revealed motile mechanisms in tissues not observable in studies using planar surfaces. Regarding models for such cell migration studies, the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum is ideal. Single amoeboid cells aggregate into hemispherical mound structures upon starvation to begin a multicellular morphogenesis. These tiny and simple multicellular bodies are suitable for observing the behaviors of individual cells in multicellular structures. Furthermore, the unique life cycle can be exploited to identify which genes are involved in cell migration in multicellular environments. Since mutants lacking such genes are expected to fail to undergo morphogenesis, easy and systematic gene screening is possible by isolating mutants whose developments arrest around the mound stage, which is the case for several mutants lacking specific cytoskeletal proteins. In this article, I discuss the basic elements required for cell migration in multicellular environments and how Dictyostelium can be used to elucidate them.

Thomas, A., et al. (2011). "A hybrid model to study pathological mutations of the human ADP/ATP carriers." Biochimie 93(9): 1415-1423.
	The adenine nucleotide carrier (Ancp) plays an essential role in the metabolism of cellular energy by catalyzing the transport of ADP and ATP across the inner mitochondrial membrane. Previous reports have indicated that mutations in the HANC1 gene, encoding the muscle isoform of human Ancp (HAnc1p), are directly involved in several diseases, including autosomal dominant progressive external ophthalmoplegia and cardiomyopathies. In this work, we studied three pathogenic HANC1 mutations at the biochemical level. To do so, we expressed the DdANCA gene, encoding the unique Ancp carrier of Dictyostelium discoideum (DdAncAp), in a yeast strain lacking all endogenous ANC genes. Our results indicate that DdAncAp is a good model for the human protein. It allows the carrier to be studied in yeast, and provides information on how the HANC1 mutations impair ADP/ATP transport in humans. A94D, A126D and V291M mutations, corresponding to A90D, A123D and V289M in HAnc1p, respectively, did not affect levels of DdAncAp in yeast mitochondria. However, while the wild-type DdAncAp fully restored growth of the ANC-null yeast strain on a non-fermentable carbon source, the carriers encompassing either the A94D or the A126D mutation failed to complement the null strain. The effect of the V291M mutation was not as pronounced, but led to impairment mainly of the nucleotide translocation process per se. These findings provide new insights into the mechanisms responsible for the diseases induced by HAnc1p mutations.

Terbach, N., et al. (2011). "Identifying an uptake mechanism for the antiepileptic and bipolar disorder treatment valproic acid using the simple biomedical model Dictyostelium." J Cell Sci 124(Pt 13): 2267-2276.
	Valproic acid (VPA) is the most highly prescribed epilepsy treatment worldwide and is also used to prevent bipolar disorder and migraine. Surprisingly, very little is known about its mechanisms of cellular uptake. Here, we employ a range of cellular, molecular and genetic approaches to characterize VPA uptake using a simple biomedical model, Dictyostelium discoideum. We show that VPA is taken up against an electrochemical gradient in a dose-dependent manner. Transport is protein-mediated, dependent on pH and the proton gradient and shows strong substrate structure specificity. Using a genetic screen, we identified a protein homologous to a mammalian solute carrier family 4 (SLC4) bicarbonate transporter that we show is involved in VPA uptake. Pharmacological and genetic ablation of this protein reduces the uptake of VPA and partially protects against VPA-dependent developmental effects, and extracellular bicarbonate competes for VPA uptake in Dictyostelium. We further show that this uptake mechanism is likely to be conserved in both zebrafish (Danio rerio) and Xenopus laevis model systems. These results implicate, for the first time, an uptake mechanism for VPA through SLC4-catalysed activity.

Tang, M., et al. (2011). "Disruption of PKB signaling restores polarity to cells lacking tumor suppressor PTEN." Mol Biol Cell 22(4): 437-447.
	By limiting phosphotidylinositol 3,4,5-triphosphate (PIP(3)) levels, tumor suppressor PTEN not only controls cell growth but also maintains cell polarity required for cytokinesis and chemotaxis. To identify the critical targets of PIP(3) that link it to the cytoskeleton, we deleted secondary genes to reverse the deficiencies of pten- cells in Dictyostelium. The polarity defects in pten- cells correlate with elevated phosphorylations of PKB substrates. Deletion of AKT orthologue, PkbA, or a subunit of its activator TORC2, reduced the phosphorylations and suppressed the cytokinesis and chemotaxis defects in pten- cells. In these double mutants, the excessive PIP(3) levels and, presumably, activation of other PIP(3)-binding proteins had little or no effect on the cytoskeleton. In bands with increased phosphorylation in pten- cells, we found PKB substrates, PI5K, GefS, GacG, and PakA. Disruption of PakA in pten- cells restored a large fraction of the cells to normal behavior. Consistently, expression of phosphomimetic PakA in pten- cells exacerbated the defects but nonphosphorylatable PakA had no effect. Thus, among many putative PTEN- and PIP(3)-dependent events, phosphorylation of PKB substrates is the key downstream regulator of cell polarity.

Takahashi, K., et al. (2011). "Derivatives of Dictyostelium differentiation-inducing factors promote mitogen-activated IL-2 production via AP-1 in Jurkat cells." Life Sci 88(11-12): 480-485.
	AIMS: Differentiation-inducing factors (DIFs) are chlorinated alkylphenones found in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. DIF derivatives exhibit antiproliferative activities and promote glucose consumption in mammalian cells in vitro. Here, we assessed the ability of DIFs to regulate the immune system in a mammalian cell-line and investigated their mechanisms of action. MAIN METHODS: We examined the effects of 30 DIF derivatives on concanavalin A-induced interleukin-2 (IL-2) production (CIIP) in Jurkat T-cells. We also examined the effects of these DIF derivatives on the activity of three transcription factors required for CIIP: namely, activator protein-1 (AP-1), nuclear factor of activated T-cells (NFAT), and nuclear factor kappa B (NFkappaB). KEY FINDINGS: A reporter gene assay suggested that 2 DIF derivatives, termed DIF-1(+1) and DIF-3(3M), significantly promoted CIIP in Jurkat cells, at least in part, by enhancing the activity of AP-1. These 2 DIF derivatives had no significant effect on concanavalin A-induced interferon-gamma production. SIGNIFICANCE: The results suggest that DIF derivatives could be developed as novel drugs for the activation of IL-2 production and resultant stimulation of the immune system.

Sunderland, M. E. (2011). "Morphogenesis, Dictyostelium, and the search for shared developmental processes." Stud Hist Philos Biol Biomed Sci 42(4): 508-517.
	In the 1930s John Tyler Bonner began studying the slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum, as a way to investigate how organisms develop. With a life cycle that includes periods of unicellularity and multicellularity, Dictyostelium raises questions fundamental to development and evolution. In Morphogenesis: An Essay on Development (1952), Bonner built on his work with Dictyostelium to inform developmental theory and practice. By exploring how Bonner's early work with Dictyostelium motivated his synthetic approach in Morphogenesis, this paper presents an example of how those who studied development sought ways to gain traction in the rapidly changing life sciences. While a biochemical viewpoint of development became dominant, morphogenesis provided a way to reintroduce and emphasize biological organization at the organismal level. Bonner's early work offers a window to mid-twentieth century studies of development, an understudied area in the history of science, and shows that it was a time when growing experimental evidence enabled new ways of thinking about the relationship between ontogeny and evolution, and more broadly, about how the parts of nature might fit together.

Sun, T. and L. Kim (2011). "Tyrosine phosphorylation-mediated signaling pathways in dictyostelium." J Signal Transduct 2011: 894351.
	While studies on metazoan cell proliferation, cell differentiation, and cytokine signaling laid the foundation of the current paradigms of tyrosine kinase signaling, similar studies using lower eukaryotes have provided invaluable insight for the understanding of mammalian pathways, such as Wnt and STAT pathways. Dictyostelium is one of the leading lower eukaryotic model systems where stress-induced cellular responses, Wnt-like pathways, and STAT-mediated pathways are well investigated. These Dictyostelium pathways will be reviewed together with their mammalian counterparts to facilitate the comparative understanding of these variant and noncanonical pathways.

Sugden, C., et al. (2011). "A Dictyostelium SH2 adaptor protein required for correct DIF-1 signaling and pattern formation." Dev Biol 353(2): 290-301.
	Dictyostelium is the only non-metazoan with functionally analyzed SH2 domains and studying them can give insights into their evolution and wider potential. LrrB has a novel domain configuration with leucine-rich repeat, 14-3-3 and SH2 protein-protein interaction modules. It is required for the correct expression of several specific genes in early development and here we characterize its role in later, multicellular development. During development in the light, slug formation in LrrB null (lrrB-) mutants is delayed relative to the parental strain, and the slugs are highly defective in phototaxis and thermotaxis. In the dark the mutant arrests development as an elongated mound, in a hitherto unreported process we term dark stalling. The developmental and phototaxis defects are cell autonomous and marker analysis shows that the pstO prestalk sub-region of the slug is aberrant in the lrrB- mutant. Expression profiling, by parallel micro-array and deep RNA sequence analyses, reveals many other alterations in prestalk-specific gene expression in lrrB- slugs, including reduced expression of the ecmB gene and elevated expression of ampA. During culmination ampA is ectopically expressed in the stalk, there is no expression of ampA and ecmB in the lower cup and the mutant fruiting bodies lack a basal disc. The basal disc cup derives from the pstB cells and this population is greatly reduced in the lrrB- mutant. This anatomical feature is a hallmark of mutants aberrant in signaling by DIF-1, the polyketide that induces prestalk and stalk cell differentiation. In a DIF-1 induction assay the lrrB- mutant is profoundly defective in ecmB activation but only marginally defective in ecmA induction. Thus the mutation partially uncouples these two inductive events. In early development LrrB interacts physically and functionally with CldA, another SH2 domain containing protein. However, the CldA null mutant does not phenocopy the lrrB- in its aberrant multicellular development or phototaxis defect, implying that the early and late functions of LrrB are affected in different ways. These observations, coupled with its domain structure, suggest that LrrB is an SH2 adaptor protein active in diverse developmental signaling pathways.

Sucgang, R., et al. (2011). "Comparative genomics of the social amoebae Dictyostelium discoideum and Dictyostelium purpureum." Genome Biol 12(2): R20.
	BACKGROUND: The social amoebae (Dictyostelia) are a diverse group of Amoebozoa that achieve multicellularity by aggregation and undergo morphogenesis into fruiting bodies with terminally differentiated spores and stalk cells. There are four groups of dictyostelids, with the most derived being a group that contains the model species Dictyostelium discoideum. RESULTS: We have produced a draft genome sequence of another group dictyostelid, Dictyostelium purpureum, and compare it to the D. discoideum genome. The assembly (8.41 x coverage) comprises 799 scaffolds totaling 33.0 Mb, comparable to the D. discoideum genome size. Sequence comparisons suggest that these two dictyostelids shared a common ancestor approximately 400 million years ago. In spite of this divergence, most orthologs reside in small clusters of conserved synteny. Comparative analyses revealed a core set of orthologous genes that illuminate dictyostelid physiology, as well as differences in gene family content. Interesting patterns of gene conservation and divergence are also evident, suggesting function differences; some protein families, such as the histidine kinases, have undergone little functional change, whereas others, such as the polyketide synthases, have undergone extensive diversification. The abundant amino acid homopolymers encoded in both genomes are generally not found in homologous positions within proteins, so they are unlikely to derive from ancestral DNA triplet repeats. Genes involved in the social stage evolved more rapidly than others, consistent with either relaxed selection or accelerated evolution due to social conflict. CONCLUSIONS: The findings from this new genome sequence and comparative analysis shed light on the biology and evolution of the Dictyostelia.

Suarez, A., et al. (2011). "An extracellular matrix, calmodulin-binding protein from Dictyostelium with EGF-like repeats that enhance cell motility." Cell Signal 23(7): 1197-1206.
	CyrA is a novel cysteine-rich protein with four EGFL repeats that was isolated using the calmodulin (CaM) binding overlay technique (CaMBOT), suggesting it is a CaM-binding protein (CaMBP). The full-length 63kDa cyrA is cleaved into two major C-terminal fragments, cyrA-C45 and cyrA-C40. A putative CaM-binding domain was detected and both CaM-agarose binding and CaM immunoprecipitation verified that cyrA-C45 and cyrA-C40 each bind to CaM in both a Ca(2+)-dependent and -independent manner. cyrA-C45 was present continuously throughout growth and development but was secreted at high levels during the multicellular slug stage of Dictyostelium development. At this time, cyrA localizes to the extracellular matrix (ECM). ECM purification verified the presence of cyrA-C45. An 18 amino acid peptide (DdEGFL1) from the first EGFL repeat sequence of cyrA (EGFL1) that is present in both cyrA-C45 and -C40 enhances both random cell motility and cAMP-mediated chemotaxis. Here we reveal that the dose-dependent enhancement of motility by DdEGFL1 is related to the time of cell starvation. Addition of DdEGFL1 also inhibits cyrA proteolysis. The status of cyrA as an extracellular CaMBP was further clarified by the demonstration that CaM is secreted during development. Antagonism of CaM with W7 resulted in enhanced cyrA proteolysis suggesting a functional role for extracellular CaM in protecting CaMBPs from proteolysis. cyrA is the first extracellular CaMBP identified in Dictyostelium and since it is an ECM protein with EGF-like repeats that enhance cell motility and it likely also represents the first matricellular protein identified in a lower eukaryote.

Strassmann, J. E. and D. C. Queller (2011). "How social evolution theory impacts our understanding of development in the social amoeba Dictyostelium." Dev Growth Differ 53(4): 597-607.
	Dictyostelium discoideum has been very useful for elucidating principles of development over the last 50 years, but a key attribute means there is a lot to be learned from a very different intellectual tradition: social evolution. Because Dictyostelium arrives at multicellularity by aggregation instead of through a single-cell bottleneck, the multicellular body could be made up of genetically distinct cells. If they are genetically distinct, natural selection will result in conflict over which cells become fertile spores and which become dead stalk cells. Evidence for this conflict includes unequal representation of two genetically different clones in spores of a chimera, the poison-like differentiation inducing factor (DIF) system that appears to involve some cells forcing others to become stalk, and reduced functionality in migrating chimeras. Understanding how selection operates on chimeras of genetically distinct clones is crucial for a comprehensive view of Dictyostelium multicellularity. In nature, Dictyostelium fruiting bodies are often clonal, or nearly so, meaning development will often be very cooperative. Relatedness levels tell us what benefits must be present for sociality to evolve. Therefore it is important to measure relatedness in nature, show that it has an impact on cooperation in the laboratory, and investigate genes that Dictyostelium uses to discriminate between relatives and non-relatives. Clearly, there is a promising future for research at the interface of development and social evolution in this fascinating group.

Strassmann, J. E. and D. C. Queller (2011). "Evolution of cooperation and control of cheating in a social microbe." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 108 Suppl 2: 10855-10862.
	Much of what we know about the evolution of altruism comes from animals. Here, we show that studying a microbe has yielded unique insights, particularly in understanding how social cheaters are controlled. The social stage of Dictylostelium discoideum occurs when the amoebae run out of their bacterial prey and aggregate into a multicellular, motile slug. This slug forms a fruiting body in which about a fifth of cells die to form a stalk that supports the remaining cells as they form hardy dispersal-ready spores. Because this social stage forms from aggregation, it is analogous to a social group, or a chimeric multicellular organism, and is vulnerable to internal conflict. Advances in cell labeling, microscopy, single-gene knockouts, and genomics, as well as the results of decades of study of D. discoideum as a model for development, allow us to explore the genetic basis of social contests and control of cheaters in unprecedented detail. Cheaters are limited from exploiting other clones by high relatedness, kin discrimination, pleiotropy, noble resistance, and lottery-like role assignment. The active nature of these limits is reflected in the elevated rates of change in social genes compared with nonsocial genes. Despite control of cheaters, some conflict is still expressed in chimeras, with slower movement of slugs, slightly decreased investment in stalk compared with spore cells, and differential contributions to stalk and spores. D. discoideum is rapidly becoming a model system of choice for molecular studies of social evolution.

Stevense, M., et al. (2011). "Nuclear organization and transcriptional dynamics in Dictyostelium." Dev Growth Differ 53(4): 576-586.
	The Dictyostelium model has a set of features uniquely well-suited to developing our understanding of transcriptional control. The complete Dictyostelium discoideum genome sequence has revealed that many of the molecular components regulating transcription in larger eukaryotes are conserved in Dictyostelium, from transcription factors and chromatin components to the enzymes and signals that regulate them. In addition, the system permits visualization of single gene firing events in living cells, which provides a more detailed view of transcription and its relationships to cell and developmental processes. This review will bring together the available knowledge of the structure and dynamics of the Dictyostelium nucleus and discuss recent transcription imaging studies and their implications for stability and accuracy of cell decisions.

Steinert, M. (2011). "Pathogen-host interactions in Dictyostelium, Legionella, Mycobacterium and other pathogens." Semin Cell Dev Biol 22(1): 70-76.
	Dictyostelium discoideum is a haploid social soil amoeba that is an established host model for several human pathogens. The research areas presently pursued include the use of D. discoideum to identify genetic host factors determining the outcome of infections and the use as screening system for identifying bacterial virulence factors. Here we report about the Legionella pneumophila directed phagosome biogenesis and the cell-to-cell spread of Mycobacterium species. Moreover, we highlight recent insights from the host-pathogen cross-talk between D. discoideum and the pathogens Salmonella typhimurium, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Yersinia pseudotuberculosis, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Stenotrophomonas maltophilia, Burkholderia cenocepacia, Vibrio cholerae and Neisseria meningitidis.

St Michael, F., et al. (2011). "Investigating the candidacy of lipopolysaccharide-based glycoconjugates as vaccines to combat Mannheimia haemolytica." Glycoconj J 28(6): 397-410.
	Inner core lipopolysaccharide (LPS) has been shown to be conserved in the majority of veterinary strains from the species Mannheimia haemolytica, Actinobacillus pleuropneumoniae and Pasteurella multocida and as such is being considered as a possible vaccine antigen. The proof-in-principle that a LPS-based antigen could be considered as a vaccine candidate has been demonstrated from studies with monoclonal antibodies raised to the inner core LPS of Mannheimia haemolytica, which were shown to be both bactericidal and protective in a mouse model of disease. In this study we confirm and extend the candidacy of the inner core LPS by demonstrating that it is possible to elicit functional antibodies against Mannheimia haemolytica wild-type strains following immunisation of rabbits with glycoconjugates elaborating the conserved inner core LPS antigen. The present study describes a conjugation strategy that uses amidases produced by Dictyostelium discoideum, targeting the amino functionality created by the amidase activity as the attachment point on the LPS molecule. To protect the amino functionality on the phosphoethanolamine (PEtn) residue of the inner core, we developed a novel blocking and unblocking strategy with t-butyl oxycarbonyl. A maleimide-thiol linker strategy with the thiol linker on the carboxyl residues of the carrier protein and the maleimide linker on the carbohydrate resulted in a high loading of carbohydrates per carrier protein. Immunisation derived antisera from rabbits recognised fully extended Mannheimia haemolytica LPS and whole cells from serotypes 1 and 2, despite a somewhat immunodominant response to the linkers also being observed. Moreover, bactericidal activity was demonstrated to a strain elaborating the immunising carbohydrate antigen and crucially to wild-type cells of serotypes 1 and 2, thus further supporting the consideration of inner core LPS as a potential vaccine antigen to combat disease caused by Mannheimia haemolytica.

Sriskanthadevan, S., et al. (2011). "The cell adhesion molecule DdCAD-1 regulates morphogenesis through differential spatiotemporal expression in Dictyostelium discoideum." Development 138(12): 2487-2497.
	During development of Dictyostelium, multiple cell types are formed and undergo a coordinated series of morphogenetic movements guided by their adhesive properties and other cellular factors. DdCAD-1 is a unique homophilic cell adhesion molecule encoded by the cadA gene. It is synthesized in the cytoplasm and transported to the plasma membrane by contractile vacuoles. In chimeras developed on soil plates, DdCAD-1-expressing cells showed greater propensity to develop into spores than did cadA-null cells. When development was performed on non-nutrient agar, wild-type cells sorted from the cadA-null cells and moved to the anterior zone. They differentiated mostly into stalk cells and eventually died, whereas the cadA-null cells survived as spores. To assess the role of DdCAD-1 in this novel behavior of wild-type and mutant cells, cadA-null cells were rescued by the ectopic expression of DdCAD-1-GFP. Morphological studies have revealed major spatiotemporal changes in the subcellular distribution of DdCAD-1 during development. Whereas DdCAD-1 became internalized in most cells in the post-aggregation stages, it was prominent in the contact regions of anterior cells. Cell sorting was also restored in cadA(-) slugs by exogenous recombinant DdCAD-1. Remarkably, DdCAD-1 remained on the surface of anterior cells, whereas it was internalized in the posterior cells. Additionally, DdCAD-1-expressing cells migrated slower than cadA(-) cells and sorted to the anterior region of chimeric slugs. These results show that DdCAD-1 influences the sorting behavior of cells in slugs by its differential distribution on the prestalk and prespore cells.

Sprio, A. E., et al. (2011). "Differentiation-inducing factor-1 enhances 5-fluorouracil action on oral cancer cells inhibiting E2F1 and thymidylate synthase mRNAs accumulation." Cancer Chemother Pharmacol.
	PURPOSE: Differentiation-inducing factor-1 (DIF-1) is a morphogen originally identified in the amoebozoan Dictyostelium discoideum. In mammalian cells, it has been shown to activate GSK3beta, which in turn is expected to reduce levels of beta-catenin and cyclin D1, thus mediating DIF-1 antiproliferative properties. Since this could alter the expression and activity of E2F1 transcription factor and consequently those of the prognostic marker/chemotherapy target thymidylate synthase (TS), we evaluated (1) whether DIF-1 could effectively regulate these genes, (2) whether it could interfere with cell viability, and (3) whether DIF-1 activity could enhance the efficacy of the TS inhibitor 5-fluorouracil (5-FU). METHODS: We investigated the effects of DIF-1 in continuous human cell lines derived from two oral tumor histotypes (corresponding to an adenosquamous and a squamous carcinoma) and a gingival epithelium. We evaluated mRNA accumulation by means of quantitative real-time PCR and efficacy of drugs on cell viability by means of MTT assay. RESULTS: DIF-1 inhibited the accumulation of E2F1 mRNA and reduces TS mRNA levels in tumor cell lines, but did not alter mRNA levels in the gingival counterpart. As a result, it inhibited proliferation preferentially of tumor cell in time- and concentration-dependent manner. Moreover, it enhanced cytotoxic effects of 5-FU only in tumor cell, whereas reduced them in the gingival counterpart. CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest a tumor-specific action of DIF-1 on oral carcinoma cells. Thus, interfering with E2F1 and TS transcription, DIF-1 potentiates TS enzymatic inhibitors.

Siu, C. H., et al. (2011). "Regulation of spatiotemporal expression of cell-cell adhesion molecules during development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev Growth Differ 53(4): 518-527.
	The social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum is a simple but powerful model organism for the study of cell-cell adhesion molecules and their role in morphogenesis during development. Three adhesive systems have been characterized and studied in detail. The spatiotemporal expression of these adhesion proteins is stringently regulated, often coinciding with major shifts in the morphological complexity of development. At the onset of development, amoeboid cells express the Ca(2+) -dependent cell-cell adhesion molecule DdCAD-1, which initiates weak homophilic interactions between cells and assists in the recruitment of individuals into cell streams. DdCAD-1 is unique because it is synthesized as a soluble protein in the cytoplasm. It is targeted for presentation on the cell surface by an unconventional protein transport mechanism via the contractile vacuole. Concomitant with the aggregation stage is the expression of the contact sites A glycoprotein csA/gp80 and TgrC1, both of which mediate Ca(2+) /Mg(2+) -independent cell-cell adhesion. Whereas csA/gp80 is a homophilic binding protein, TgrC1 binds to a heterophilic receptor on the cell. During cell aggregation, csA/gp80 associates preferentially with lipid rafts, which facilitate the rapid assembly of adhesion complexes. TgrC1 is synthesized at low levels during aggregation and rapid accumulation occurs initially in the peripheral cells of loose mounds. The extracellular portion of TgrC1 is shed and becomes part of the extracellular matrix. Additionally, analyses of knockout mutants have revealed important biological roles played by these adhesion proteins, including size regulation, cell sorting and cell-type proportioning.

Siol, O., et al. (2011). "Genetically tagged TRE5-A retrotransposons reveal high amplification rates and authentic target site preference in the Dictyostelium discoideum genome." Nucleic Acids Res 39(15): 6608-6619.
	Retrotransposons contribute significantly to the evolution of eukaryotic genomes. They replicate by producing DNA copies of their own RNA, which are integrated at new locations in the host cell genome. In the gene-dense genome of the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum, retrotransposon TRE5-A avoids insertional mutagenesis by targeting the transcription factor (TF) IIIC/IIIB complex and integrating approximately 50 bp upstream of tRNA genes. We generated synthetic TRE5-A retrotransposons (TRE5-A(bsr)) that were tagged with a selection marker that conferred resistance to blasticidin after a complete retrotransposition cycle. We found that the TRE5-A(bsr) elements were efficiently mobilized in trans by proteins expressed from the endogenous TRE5-A population found in D. discoideum cells. ORF1 protein translated from TRE5-A(bsr) elements significantly enhanced retrotransposition. We observed that the 5' untranslated region of TRE5-A could be replaced by an unrelated promoter, whereas the 3' untranslated region of TRE5-A was essential for retrotransposition. A predicted secondary structure in the RNA of the 3' untranslated region of TRE5-A may be involved in the retrotransposition process. The TRE5-A(bsr) elements were capable of identifying authentic integration targets in vivo, including formerly unnoticed, putative binding sites for TFIIIC on the extrachromosomal DNA element that carries the ribosomal RNA genes.

Sillo, A., et al. (2011). "Salmonella typhimurium is pathogenic for Dictyostelium cells and subverts the starvation response." Cell Microbiol 13(11): 1793-1811.
	In unicellular amoebae, such as Dictyostelium discoideum, bacterial phagocytosis is a food hunting device, while in higher organisms it is the first defence barrier against microbial infection. In both cases, pathogenic bacteria exploit phagocytosis to enter the cell and multiply intracellularly. Salmonella typhimurium, the agent of food-borne gastroenteritis, is phagocytosed by both macrophages and Dictyostelium cells. By using cell biological assays and global transcriptional analysis with DNA microarrays covering the Dictyostelium genome, we show here that S. typhimurium is pathogenic for Dictyostelium cells. Depending on the degree of virulence, which in turn depended on bacterial growth conditions, Salmonella could kill Dictyostelium cells or inhibit their growth and development. In the early phase of infection in non-nutrient buffer, the ingested bacteria escaped degradation, induced a starvation-like transcriptional response but inhibited selectively genes required for chemotaxis and aggregation. This way differentiation of the host cells into spore and stalk cells was blocked or delayed, which in turn is likely to be favourable for the establishment of a replicative niche for Salmonella. Inhibition of the aggregation competence and chemotactic streaming of aggregation-competent cells in the presence of Salmonella suggests interference with cAMP signalling.

Shina, M. C., et al. (2011). "Redundant and unique roles of coronin proteins in Dictyostelium." Cell Mol Life Sci 68(2): 303-313.
	Dictyostelium discoideum harbors a short (CRN12) and a long coronin (CRN7) composed of one and two beta-propellers, respectively. They are primarily present in the cell cortex and cells lacking CRN12 (corA) or CRN7 (corB) have defects in actin driven processes. We compared the characteristics of a mutant cell line (corA/corB) lacking CRN12 and CRN7 with the single mutants focusing on cytokinesis, phagocytosis, chemotaxis and development. Cytokinesis, uptake of small particles, and developmental defects were not enhanced in the corA/corB strain as compared to the single mutants, whereas motility and phagocytosis of yeast particles were more severely impaired. It appears that although both proteins affect the same processes they do not act in a redundant manner. Rather, they often act antagonistically, which is in accordance with their proposed roles in the actin cytoskeleton where CRN12 acts in actin disassembly whereas CRN7 stabilizes actin filaments and protects them from disassembly.

Shen, H. M. and P. Codogno (2011). "Autophagic cell death: Loch Ness monster or endangered species?" Autophagy 7(5): 457-465.
	The concept of autophagic cell death was first established based on observations of increased autophagic markers in dying cells. The major limitation of such a morphology-based definition of autophagic cell death is that it fails to establish the functional role of autophagy in the cell death process, and thus contributes to the confusion in the literature regarding the role of autophagy in cell death and cell survival. Here we propose to define autophagic cell death as a modality of non-apoptotic or necrotic programmed cell death in which autophagy serves as a cell death mechanism, upon meeting the following set of criteria: (i) cell death occurs without the involvement of apoptosis; (ii) there is an increase of autophagic flux, and not just an increase of the autophagic markers, in the dying cells; and (iii) suppression of autophagy via both pharmacological inhibitors and genetic approaches is able to rescue or prevent cell death. In light of this new definition, we will discuss some of the common problems and difficulties in the study of autophagic cell death and also revisit some well-reported cases of autophagic cell death, aiming to achieve a better understanding of whether autophagy is a real killer, an accomplice or just an innocent bystander in the course of cell death. At present, the physiological relevance of autophagic cell death is mainly observed in lower eukaryotes and invertebrates such as Dictyostelium discoideum and Drosophila melanogaster. We believe that such a clear definition of autophagic cell death will help us study and understand the physiological or pathological relevance of autophagic cell death in mammals.

Shen, B., et al. (2011). "Biogenesis of the posterior pole is mediated by the exosome/microvesicle protein-sorting pathway." J Biol Chem 286(51): 44162-44176.
	Biogenesis of the posterior pole is critical to directed cell migration and other polarity-dependent processes. We show here that proteins are targeted to the posterior pole on the basis of higher order oligomerization and plasma membrane binding, the same elements that target proteins to exosomes/microvesicles (EMVs), HIV, and other retrovirus particles. We also demonstrate that the polarization of the EMV protein-sorting pathway can occur in morphologically non-polarized cells, defines the site of uropod formation, is induced by increased expression of EMV cargo proteins, and is evolutionarily conserved between humans and the protozoan Dictyostelium discoideum. Based on these results, we propose a mechanism of posterior pole biogenesis in which elevated levels of EMV cargoes (i) polarize the EMV protein-sorting pathway, (ii) generate a nascent posterior pole, and (iii) prime cells for signal-induced biogenesis of a uropod. This model also offers a mechanistic explanation for the polarized budding of EMVs and retroviruses, including HIV.

Serge, A., et al. (2011). "Quantification of GPCR internalization by single-molecule microscopy in living cells." Integr Biol (Camb) 3(6): 675-683.
	Receptor internalization upon ligand stimulation is a key component of a cell's response and allows a cell to correctly sense its environment. Novel fluorescent methods have enabled the direct visualization of the agonist-stimulated G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCR) trafficking in living cells. However, it is difficult to observe internalization of GPCRs in vivo due to intrinsic autofluorescence and cytosolic signals of fluorescently labeled GPCRs. This study uses the superior positional accuracy of single-molecule fluorescence microscopy to visualize in real time the internalization of Dictyostelium discoideum cAMP receptors, cAR1, genetically encoded with eYFP. This technique made it possible to follow the number of receptors in time revealing that the fraction of cytosolic receptors increases after persistent agonist stimulation and that the majority of the receptors were degraded after internalization. The observed internalization process was phosphorylation dependent, as shown with the use of a phosphorylation deficient cAR1 mutant, cm1234-eYFP, or stimulation with an antagonist, Rp-cAMPS that does not induce receptor phosphorylation. Furthermore, experiments done in mound-stage cells suggest that intrinsic, phosphorylation-induced internalization of cAR1 is necessary for Dictyostelium wild type cells to progress properly through multicellular development. To our knowledge, this observation illustrates for the first time phosphorylation-dependent internalization of single cAR1 molecules in living cells and its involvement in multicellular development. This very sensitive imaging of receptor internalization can be a useful and universal approach for pharmacological characterization of GPCRs in other cell types.

Serfontein, J., et al. (2011). "Conservation of structural and functional elements of TSC1 and TSC2: a bioinformatic comparison across animal models." Behav Genet 41(3): 349-356.
	The tuberous sclerosis complex 1/2-mammalian target of rapamycin (TSC1/2-mTOR) proteins act as integrators of a range of intracellular signalling pathways. Various genetic disorders associated with learning and behavioural deficits, including TSC, Fragile X, Neurofibromatosis Type 1, Noonan and Leopard syndromes, are associated with abnormalities in TSC-mTOR signalling. Based on the assumption that signalling proteins and their structural and functional components are widely conserved, a number of animal models are used to study aspects of the physical and behavioural phenotypes of these human disorders. Model organisms include rat (Rattus norvegicus), mouse (Mus musculus), zebrafish (Danio rerio), fruitfly (Drosophila melanogaster) and fission yeast (Schizosaccharomyces pombe). Here we used a bioinformatic approach to examine the presence of structural and functional elements of TSC1 and TSC2 across these organisms, together with Strongylocentrotus purpuratus and Dictyostelium discoideum. Results suggest that while Rattus norvegicus and Mus musculus TSC1 and TSC2 showed very high similarity to the human sequences, this was not the case for Danio rerio, Drosophila melanogaster, Strongylocentrotus purpuratus, Schizosaccharomyces pombe or Disctyostelium discoideum. Findings indicate that caution should be exercised in detailed interpretation of results from some model organisms.

Schonitzer, V., et al. (2011). "Transmembrane myosin chitin synthase involved in mollusc shell formation produced in Dictyostelium is active." Biochem Biophys Res Commun 415(4): 586-590.
	Several mollusc shells contain chitin, which is formed by a transmembrane myosin motor enzyme. This protein could be involved in sensing mechanical and structural changes of the forming, mineralizing extracellular matrix. Here we report the heterologous expression of the transmembrane myosin chitin synthase Ar-CS1 of the bivalve mollusc Atrina rigida (2286 amino acid residues, M.W. 264 kDa/monomer) in Dictyostelium discoideum, a model organism for myosin motor proteins. Confocal laser scanning immunofluorescence microscopy (CLSM), chitin binding GFP detection of chitin on cells and released to the cell culture medium, and a radiochemical activity assay of membrane extracts revealed expression and enzymatic activity of the mollusc chitin synthase in transgenic slime mold cells. First high-resolution atomic force microscopy (AFM) images of Ar-CS1 transformed cellulose synthase deficient D. discoideumdcsA(-) cell lines are shown.

Schafer, E., et al. (2011). "Shape oscillations of Dictyostelium discoideum cells on ultramicroelectrodes monitored by impedance analysis." Small 7(6): 723-726.
	
Schaap, P. (2011). "Evolutionary crossroads in developmental biology: Dictyostelium discoideum." Development 138(3): 387-396.
	Dictyostelium discoideum belongs to a group of multicellular life forms that can also exist for long periods as single cells. This ability to shift between uni- and multicellularity makes the group ideal for studying the genetic changes that occurred at the crossroads between uni- and multicellular life. In this Primer, I discuss the mechanisms that control multicellular development in Dictyostelium discoideum and reconstruct how some of these mechanisms evolved from a stress response in the unicellular ancestor.

Schaap, P. (2011). "Evolution of developmental cyclic adenosine monophosphate signaling in the Dictyostelia from an amoebozoan stress response." Dev Growth Differ 53(4): 452-462.
	The Dictyostelid social amoebas represent one of nature's several inventions of multicellularity. Though normally feeding as single cells, nutrient stress triggers the collection of amoebas into colonies that form delicately shaped fruiting structures in which the cells differentiate into spores and up to three cell types to support the spore mass. Cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) plays a very dominant role in controlling morphogenesis and cell differentiation in the model species Dictyostelium discoideum. As a secreted chemoattractant cAMP coordinates cell movement during aggregation and fruiting body morphogenesis. Secreted cAMP also controls gene expression at different developmental stages, while intracellular cAMP is extensively used to transduce the effect of other stimuli that control the developmental program. In this review, I present an overview of the different roles of cAMP in the model D. discoideum and I summarize studies aimed to resolve how these roles emerged during Dictyostelid evolution.

Sanchez, C. (2011). "Microbial genetics: social amoebae get ready for sex." Nat Rev Microbiol 9(2): 79.
	
Samereier, M., et al. (2011). "Analysis of Dictyostelium TACC reveals differential interactions with CP224 and unusual dynamics of Dictyostelium microtubules." Cell Mol Life Sci 68(2): 275-287.
	We have localized TACC to the microtubule-nucleating centrosomal corona and to microtubule plus ends. Using RNAi we proved that Dictyostelium TACC promotes microtubule growth during interphase and mitosis. For the first time we show in vivo that both TACC and XMAP215 family proteins can be differentially localized to microtubule plus ends during interphase and mitosis and that TACC is mainly required for recruitment of an XMAP215-family protein to interphase microtubule plus ends but not for recruitment to centrosomes and kinetochores. Moreover, we have now a marker to study dynamics and behavior of microtubule plus ends in living Dictyostelium cells. In a combination of live cell imaging of microtubule plus ends and fluorescence recovery after photobleaching (FRAP) experiments of GFP-alpha-tubulin cells we show that Dictyostelium microtubules are dynamic only in the cell periphery, while they remain stable at the centrosome, which also appears to harbor a dynamic pool of tubulin dimers.

Rump, A., et al. (2011). "Myosin-1C associates with microtubules and stabilizes the mitotic spindle during cell division." J Cell Sci 124(Pt 15): 2521-2528.
	The mitotic spindle in eukaryotic cells is composed of a bipolar array of microtubules (MTs) and associated proteins that are required during mitosis for the correct partitioning of the two sets of chromosomes to the daughter cells. In addition to the well-established functions of MT-associated proteins (MAPs) and MT-based motors in cell division, there is increasing evidence that the F-actin-based myosin motors are important mediators of F-actin-MT interactions during mitosis. Here, we report the functional characterization of the long-tailed class-1 myosin myosin-1C from Dictyostelium discoideum during mitosis. Our data reveal that myosin-1C binds to MTs and has a role in maintenance of spindle stability for accurate chromosome separation. Both myosin-1C motor function and tail-domain-mediated MT-F-actin interactions are required for the cell-cycle-dependent relocalization of the protein from the cell periphery to the spindle. We show that the association of myosin-1C with MTs is mediated through the tail domain. The myosin-1C tail can inhibit kinesin motor activity, increase the stability of MTs, and form crosslinks between MTs and F-actin. These data illustrate that myosin-1C is involved in the regulation of MT function during mitosis in D. discoideum.

Romeralo, M., et al. (2011). "Social amoebae: environmental factors influencing their distribution and diversity across south-western Europe." Microb Ecol 61(1): 154-165.
	The social amoebae (dictyostelids) are the only truly multicellular lineage within the superkingdom Amoebozoa, the sister group to Ophistokonts (Metazoa+Fungi). Despite the exceptional phylogenetic and evolutionary value of this taxon, the environmental factors that determine their distribution and diversity are largely unknown. We have applied statistical modeling to a set of data obtained from an extensive and detailed survey in the south-western of Europe (The Iberian Peninsula including Spain and Portugal) in order to estimate some of the main environmental factors influencing the distribution and diversity of dictyostelid in temperate climates. It is the first time that this methodology is applied to the study of this unique group of soil microorganisms. Our results show that a combination of climatic (temperature, water availability), physical (pH) and vegetation (species richness) factors favor dictyostelid species richness. In the Iberian Peninsula, dictyostelid diversity is highest in colder and wet environments, indicating that this group has likely diversified in relatively cold places with high levels of water availability.

Romeralo, M., et al. (2011). "Evolution and Diversity of Dictyostelid Social Amoebae." Protist.
	Dictyostelid social amoebae are a large and ancient group of soil microbes with an unusual multicellular stage in their life cycle. Taxonomically, they belong to the eukaryotic supergroup Amoebozoa, the sister group to Opisthokonta (animals + fungi). Roughly half of the approximately 150 known dictyostelid species were discovered during the last five years and probably many more remain to be found. The traditional classification system of Dictyostelia was completely overturned by cladistic analyses and molecular phylogenies of the past six years. As a result, it now appears that, instead of three major divisions there are eight, none of which correspond to traditional higher-level taxa. In addition to the widely studied Dictyostelium discoideum, there are now efforts to develop model organisms and complete genome sequences for each major group. Thus Dictyostelia is becoming an excellent model for both practical, medically related research and for studying basic principles in cell-cell communication and developmental evolution. In this review we summarize the latest information about their life cycle, taxonomy, evolutionary history, genome projects and practical importance.

Romeralo, M., et al. (2011). "An expanded phylogeny of social amoebas (Dictyostelia) shows increasing diversity and new morphological patterns." BMC Evol Biol 11: 84.
	BACKGROUND: Social Amoebae or Dictyostelia are eukaryotic microbes with a unique life cycle consisting of both uni- and multicellular stages. They have long fascinated molecular, developmental and evolutionary biologists, and Dictyostelium discoideum is now one of the most widely studied eukaryotic microbial models. The first molecular phylogeny of Dictyostelia included most of the species known at the time and suggested an extremely deep taxon with a molecular depth roughly equivalent to Metazoa. The group was also shown to consist of four major clades, none of which correspond to traditional genera. Potential morphological justification was identified for three of the four major groups, on the basis of which tentative names were assigned. RESULTS: Over the past four years, the Mycetozoan Global Biodiversity Survey has identified many new isolates that appear to be new species of Dictyostelia, along with numerous isolates of previously described species. We have determined 18S ribosomal RNA gene sequences for all of these new isolates. Phylogenetic analyses of these data show at least 50 new species, and these arise from throughout the dictyostelid tree breaking up many previously isolated long branches. The resulting tree now shows eight well-supported major groups instead of the original four. The new species also expand the known morphological diversity of the previously established four major groups, violating nearly all previously suggested deep morphological patterns. CONCLUSIONS: A greatly expanded phylogeny of Dictyostelia now shows even greater morphological plasticity at deep taxonomic levels. In fact, there now seem to be no obvious deep evolutionary trends across the group. However at a finer level, patterns in morphological character evolution are beginning to emerge. These results also suggest that there is a far greater diversity of Dictyostelia yet to be discovered, including novel morphologies.

Robery, S., et al. (2011). "Investigating the effect of emetic compounds on chemotaxis in Dictyostelium identifies a non-sentient model for bitter and hot tastant research." PLoS One 6(9): e24439.
	Novel chemical entities (NCEs) may be investigated for emetic liability in a range of unpleasant experiments involving retching, vomiting or conditioned taste aversion/food avoidance in sentient animals. We have used a range of compounds with known emetic /aversive properties to examine the possibility of using the social amoeba, Dictyostelium discoideum, for research into identifying and understanding emetic liability, and hence reduce adverse animal experimentation in this area. Twenty eight emetic or taste aversive compounds were employed to investigate the acute (10 min) effect of compounds on Dictyostelium cell behaviour (shape, speed and direction of movement) in a shallow chemotaxic gradient (Dunn chamber). Compound concentrations were chosen based on those previously reported to be emetic or aversive in in vivo studies and results were recorded and quantified by automated image analysis. Dictyostelium cell motility was rapidly and strongly inhibited by four structurally distinct tastants (three bitter tasting compounds--denatonium benzoate, quinine hydrochloride, phenylthiourea, and the pungent constituent of chilli peppers--capsaicin). In addition, stomach irritants (copper chloride and copper sulphate), and a phosphodiesterase IV inhibitor also rapidly blocked movement. A concentration-dependant relationship was established for five of these compounds, showing potency of inhibition as capsaicin (IC(50) = 11.9 +/- 4.0 microM) &gt; quinine hydrochloride (IC(50) = 44.3 +/- 6.8 microM) &gt; denatonium benzoate (IC(50) = 129 +/- 4 microM) &gt; phenylthiourea (IC(50) = 366 +/- 5 microM) &gt; copper sulphate (IC(50) = 1433 +/- 3 microM). In contrast, 21 compounds within the cytotoxic and receptor agonist/antagonist classes did not affect cell behaviour. Further analysis of bitter and pungent compounds showed that the effect on cell behaviour was reversible and not cytotoxic, suggesting an uncharacterised molecular mechanism of action for these compounds. These results therefore demonstrate that Dictyostelium has potential as a non-sentient model in the analysis of the molecular effects of tastants, although it has limited utility in identification of emetic agents in general.

Roberge-White, E. and M. Katoh-Kurasawa (2011). "Plasticity in the development and dedifferentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev Growth Differ 53(4): 587-596.
	Dictyostelium discoideum has served as a model for development and differentiation for over 70 years. Also regulated in Dictyostelium is the process of dedifferentiation, which consists of multiple cellular events that are separately regulated, providing an excellent model system for studying the return of partially differentiated cells to a more pluripotent state. An interesting aspect of Dictyostelium development is the plasticity between growth and development. Reversibility of the processes of differentiation and dedifferentiation exist, allowing Dictyostelium to adjust to changing conditions by reverting to the growth phase during differentiation or reinitiating development during dedifferentiation. This ability of cells to respond to environmental cues is mediated by the checkpoint-like events "commitment" and "erasure," which occur during differentiation and dedifferentiation, respectively. Our review will discuss the current state of knowledge regarding dedifferentiation and the plasticity of the developmental process in both the forward and reverse directions.

Riyahi, T. Y., et al. (2011). "RpkA, a highly conserved GPCR with a lipid kinase domain, has a role in phagocytosis and anti-bacterial defense." PLoS One 6(11): e27311.
	RpkA (Receptor phosphatidylinositol kinase A) is an unusual seven-helix transmembrane protein of Dictyostelium discoideum with a G protein coupled receptor (GPCR) signature and a C-terminal lipid kinase domain (GPCR-PIPK) predicted as a phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate 5-kinase. RpkA-homologs are present in all so far sequenced Dictyostelidae as well as in several other lower eukaryotes like the oomycete Phytophthora, and in the Legionella host Acanthamoeba castellani. Here we show by immunofluorescence that RpkA localizes to endosomal membranes and is specifically recruited to phagosomes. RpkA interacts with the phagosomal protein complex V-ATPase as proteins of this complex co-precipitate with RpkA-GFP as well as with the GST-tagged PIPK domain of RpkA. Loss of RpkA leads to a defect in phagocytosis as measured by yeast particle uptake. The uptake of the pathogenic bacterium Legionella pneumophila was however unaltered whereas its intra-cellular replication was significantly enhanced in rpkA(-). The difference between wild type and rpkA(-) was even more prominent when L. hackeliae was used. When we investigated the reason for the enhanced susceptibility for L. pneumophila of rpkA(-) we could not detect a difference in endosomal pH but rpkA(-) showed depletion of phosphoinositides (PIP and PIP(2)) when we compared metabolically labeled phosphoinositides from wild type and rpkA(-). Furthermore rpkA(-) exhibited reduced nitrogen starvation tolerance, an indicator for a reduced autophagy rate. Our results indicate that RpkA is a component of the defense system of D. discoideum as well as other lower eukaryotes.

Ray, S., et al. (2011). "Phospholipase D controls Dictyostelium development by regulating G protein signaling." Cell Signal 23(2): 335-343.
	Dictyostelium discoideum cells normally exist as individual amoebae, but will enter a period of multicellular development upon starvation. The initial stages of development involve the aggregation of individual cells, using cAMP as a chemoattractant. Chemotaxis is initiated when cAMP binds to its receptor, cAR1, and activates the associated G protein, Galpha2betagamma. However, chemotaxis will not occur unless there is a high density of starving cells present, as measured by high levels of the secreted quorum sensing molecule, CMF. We previously demonstrated that cells lacking PldB bypass the need for CMF and can aggregate at low cell density, whereas cells overexpressing pldB do not aggregate even at high cell density. Here, we found that PldB controlled both cAMP chemotaxis and cell sorting. PldB was also required by CMF to regulate G protein signaling. Specifically, CMF used PldB, to regulate the dissociation of Galpha2 from Gbetagamma. Using fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET), we found that along with cAMP, CMF increased the dissociation of the G protein. In fact, CMF augmented the dissociation induced by cAMP. This augmentation was lost in cells lacking PldB. PldB appears to mediate the CMF signal through the production of phosphatidic acid, as exogenously added phosphatidic acid phenocopies overexpression of pldB. These results suggest that phospholipase D activity is required for CMF to alter the kinetics of cAMP-induced G protein signaling.

Rajawat, J., et al. (2011). "Differential role of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase in D. discoideum growth and development." BMC Dev Biol 11: 14.
	BACKGROUND: Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase is evolutionarily conserved as a responder to various forms of stress. Though PARP's role in cell death is well addressed, its role in development and multicellularity is still an enigma. We have previously reported the role of PARP in oxidative stress induced delayed development of D. discoideum. RESULTS: In the current study we highlight the involvement of PARP during D. discoideum development. Oxidative stress affects expression of aca and cAR1 thus affecting aggregation. Although parp expression is not affected during oxidative stress but it is involved during normal development as confirmed by our PARP down-regulation studies. Constitutive PARP down-regulation resulted in blocked development while no effect was observed on D. discoideum growth. Interestingly, stage specific PARP down-regulation arrested development at the slug stage. CONCLUSION: These results emphasize that PARP is essential for complex differentiation and its function may be linked to multicellularity. This is the first report where the involvement of PARP during normal multicellular development in D. discoideum, an ancient eukaryote, is established which could be of evolutionary significance. Thus our study adds one more role to the multitasking function of PARP.

Rai, V. and T. T. Egelhoff (2011). "Role of B regulatory subunits of protein phosphatase type 2A in myosin II assembly control in Dictyostelium discoideum." Eukaryot Cell 10(4): 604-610.
	In Dictyostelium discoideum, myosin II resides predominantly in a soluble pool as the result of phosphorylation of the myosin heavy chain (MHC), and dephosphorylation of the MHC is required for myosin II filament assembly, recruitment to the cytoskeleton, and force production. Protein phosphatase type 2A (PP2A) was identified in earlier studies in Dictyostelium as a key biochemical activity that can drive MHC dephosphorylation. We report here gene targeting and cell biological studies addressing the roles of candidate PP2A B regulatory subunits (phr2aBalpha and phr2aBbeta) in myosin II assembly control in vivo. Dictyostelium phr2aBalpha- and phr2aBbeta-null cells show delayed development, reduction in the assembly of myosin II in cytoskeletal ghost assays, and defects in cytokinesis when grown in suspension compared to parental cell lines. These results demonstrate that the PP2A B subunits phr2aBalpha and phr2aBbeta contribute to myosin II assembly control in vivo, with phr2aBalpha having the predominant role facilitating MHC dephosphorylation to facilitate filament assembly.

Rai, A., et al. (2011). "Dictyostelium dynamin B modulates cytoskeletal structures and membranous organelles." Cell Mol Life Sci 68(16): 2751-2767.
	Dictyostelium discoideum cells produce five dynamin family proteins. Here, we show that dynamin B is the only member of this group of proteins that is initially produced as a preprotein and requires processing by mitochondrial proteases for formation of the mature protein. Our results show that dynamin B-depletion affects many aspects of cell motility, cell-cell and cell-surface adhesion, resistance to osmotic shock, and fatty acid metabolism. The mature form of dynamin B mediates a wide range and unique combination of functions. Dynamin B affects events at the plasma membrane, peroxisomes, the contractile vacuole system, components of the actin-based cytoskeleton, and cell adhesion sites. The modulating effect of dynamin B on the activity of the contractile vacuole system is unique for the Dictyostelium system. Other functions displayed by dynamin B are commonly associated with either classical dynamins or dynamin-related proteins.

Pribic, J., et al. (2011). "Paxillin and phospholipase D interact to regulate actin-based processes in Dictyostelium discoideum." Eukaryot Cell 10(7): 977-984.
	The actin cytoskeleton forms a membrane-associated network whose proper regulation is essential for numerous processes, including cell differentiation, proliferation, adhesion, chemotaxis, endocytosis, exocytosis, and multicellular development. In this report, we show that in Dictyostelium discoideum, paxillin (PaxB) and phospholipase D (PldB) colocalize and coimmunoprecipitate, suggesting that they interact physically. Additionally, the phenotypes observed during development, cell sorting, and several actin-required processes, including cyclic AMP (cAMP) chemotaxis, cell-substrate adhesion, actin polymerization, phagocytosis, and exocytosis, reveal a genetic interaction between paxB and pldB, suggesting a functional interaction between their gene products. Taken together, our data point to PldB being a required binding partner of PaxB during processes involving actin reorganization.

Preller, M., et al. (2011). "Inhibition of Myosin ATPase activity by halogenated pseudilins: a structure-activity study." J Med Chem 54(11): 3675-3685.
	Myosin activity is crucial for many biological functions. Strong links have been established between changes in the activity of specific myosin isoforms and diseases such as cancer, cardiovascular failure, and disorders of sensory organs and the central nervous system. The modulation of specific myosin isoforms therefore holds a strong therapeutic potential. In recent work, we identified members of the marine alkaloid family of pseudilins as potent inhibitors of myosin-dependent processes. Here, we report the crystal structure of the complex between the Dictyostelium myosin 2 motor domain and 2,4-dichloro-6-(3,4,5-tribromo-1H-pyrrole-2-yl)phenol (3). Detailed comparison with previously solved structures of the myosin 2 complex with bound pentabromopseudilin (2a) or pentachloropseudilin (4a) provides insights into the molecular basis of the allosteric communication between the catalytic and the allosteric sites. Moreover, we describe the inhibitory potency for a congeneric series of halogenated pseudilins. Insight into their mode of action is gained by applying a combination of experimental and computational approaches.

Preller, M., et al. (2011). "Structural basis for the allosteric interference of myosin function by reactive thiol region mutations G680A and G680V." J Biol Chem 286(40): 35051-35060.
	The cold-sensitive single-residue mutation of glycine 680 in the reactive thiol region of Dictyostelium discoideum myosin-2 or the corresponding conserved glycine in other myosin isoforms has been reported to interfere with motor function. Here we present the x-ray structures of myosin motor domain mutants G680A in the absence and presence of nucleotide as well as the apo structure of mutant G680V. Our results show that the Gly-680 mutations lead to uncoupling of the reactive thiol region from the surrounding structural elements. Structural and functional data indicate that the mutations induce the preferential population of a state that resembles the ADP-bound state. Moreover, the Gly-680 mutants display greatly reduced dynamic properties, which appear to be related to the recovery of myosin motor function at elevated temperatures.

Phillips, J. E., et al. (2011). "The putative bZIP transcription factor BzpN slows proliferation and functions in the regulation of cell density by autocrine signals in Dictyostelium." PLoS One 6(7): e21765.
	The secreted proteins AprA and CfaD function as autocrine signals that inhibit cell proliferation in Dictyostelium discoideum, thereby regulating cell numbers by a negative feedback mechanism. We report here that the putative basic leucine zipper transcription factor BzpN plays a role in the inhibition of proliferation by AprA and CfaD. Cells lacking BzpN proliferate more rapidly than wild-type cells but do not reach a higher stationary density. Recombinant AprA inhibits wild-type cell proliferation but does not inhibit the proliferation of cells lacking BzpN. Recombinant CfaD also inhibits wild-type cell proliferation, but promotes the proliferation of cells lacking BzpN. Overexpression of BzpN results in a reduced cell density at stationary phase, and this phenotype requires AprA, CfaD, and the kinase QkgA. Conditioned media from high-density cells stops the proliferation of wild-type but not bzpN(-) cells and induces a nuclear localization of a BzpN-GFP fusion protein, though this localization does not require AprA or CfaD. Together, the data suggest that BzpN is necessary for some but not all of the effects of AprA and CfaD, and that BzpN may function downstream of AprA and CfaD in a signal transduction pathway that inhibits proliferation.

Parkinson, K., et al. (2011). "A simple mechanism for complex social behavior." PLoS Biol 9(3): e1001039.
	The evolution of cooperation is a paradox because natural selection should favor exploitative individuals that avoid paying their fair share of any costs. Such conflict between the self-interests of cooperating individuals often results in the evolution of complex, opponent-specific, social strategies and counterstrategies. However, the genetic and biological mechanisms underlying complex social strategies, and therefore the evolution of cooperative behavior, are largely unknown. To address this dearth of empirical data, we combine mathematical modeling, molecular genetic, and developmental approaches to test whether variation in the production of and response to social signals is sufficient to generate the complex partner-specific social success seen in the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum. Firstly, we find that the simple model of production of and response to social signals can generate the sort of apparent complex changes in social behavior seen in this system, without the need for partner recognition. Secondly, measurements of signal production and response in a mutant with a change in a single gene that leads to a shift in social behavior provide support for this model. Finally, these simple measurements of social signaling can also explain complex patterns of variation in social behavior generated by the natural genetic diversity found in isolates collected from the wild. Our studies therefore demonstrate a novel and elegantly simple underlying mechanistic basis for natural variation in complex social strategies in D. discoideum. More generally, they suggest that simple rules governing interactions between individuals can be sufficient to generate a diverse array of outcomes that appear complex and unpredictable when those rules are unknown.

Pan, Y. J., et al. (2011). "Use of a Dictyostelium model for isolation of genetic loci associated with phagocytosis and virulence in Klebsiella pneumoniae." Infect Immun 79(3): 997-1006.
	Phagocytosis resistance is an important virulence factor in Klebsiella pneumoniae. Dictyostelium has been used to study the interaction between phagocytes and bacteria because of its similarity to mammalian macrophages. In this study, we used a Dictyostelium model to investigate genes for resistance to phagocytosis in NTUH-K2044, a strain of K. pneumoniae causing pyogenic liver abscess that is highly resistant to phagocytosis. A total of 2,500 transposon mutants were screened by plaque assay, and 29 of them permitted phagocytosis by Dictyostelium. In the 29 mutants, six loci were identified; three were capsular synthesis genes. Of the other three, one was related to carnitine metabolism, one encoded a subunit of protease (clpX), and one encoded a lipopolysaccharide O-antigen transporter (wzm). Deletion and complementation of these genes showed that only DeltaclpX and Deltawzm mutants became susceptible to Dictyostelium phagocytosis, and their complementation restored the phagocytosis resistance phenotype. These two mutants were also susceptible to phagocytosis by human neutrophils and revealed attenuated virulence in a mouse model, implying that they play important roles in the pathogenesis of K. pneumoniae. Furthermore, we demonstrated that clpP, which exists in an operon with clpX, was also involved in resistance to phagocytosis. The transcriptional profile of DeltaclpX was examined by microarray analysis and revealed a 3-fold lower level of expression of capsular synthesis genes. Therefore, we have identified genes involved in resistance to phagocytosis in K. pneumoniae using Dictyostelium, and this model is useful to explore genes associated with resistance to phagocytosis in heavily encapsulated bacteria.

Pakes, N. K., et al. (2011). "Bio-electrospraying and aerodynamically assisted bio-jetting the model eukaryotic Dictyostelium discoideum: assessing stress and developmental competency post treatment." J R Soc Interface 8(61): 1185-1191.
	Bio-electrospraying (BES) and aerodynamically assisted bio-jetting (AABJ) have recently been established as important novel biospray technologies for directly manipulating living cells. To elucidate their potential in medical and clinical sciences, these bio-aerosol techniques have been subjected to increasingly rigorous investigations. In parallel to these studies, we wish to introduce these unique biotechnologies for use in the basic biological sciences, for handling a wide range of cell types and systems, thus increasing the range and the scope of these techniques for modern research. Here, the authors present the analysis of the new use of these biospray techniques for the direct handling of the simple eukaryotic biomedical model organism Dictyostelium discoideum. These cells are widely used as a model for immune cell chemotaxis and as a simple model for development. We demonstrate that AABJ of these cells did not cause cell stress, as defined by the stress-gene induction, nor affect cell development. Furthermore, although BES induced the increased expression of one stress-related gene (gapA), this was not a generalized stress response nor did it affect cell development. These data suggest that these biospray techniques can be used to directly manipulate single cells of this biomedical model without inducing a generalized stress response or perturbing later development.

Ochiai, H., et al. (2011). "Protein kinase B gene homologue pkbR1 performs one of its roles at first finger stage of Dictyostelium." Eukaryot Cell 10(4): 512-520.
	Dictyostelium discoideum has protein kinases AKT/PKBA and PKBR1 that belong to the AGC family of kinases. The protein kinase B-related kinase (PKBR1) has been studied with emphasis on its role in chemotaxis, but its roles in late development remained obscure. The pkbR1 null mutant stays in the first finger stage for about 16 h or longer. Only a few aggregates continue to the migrating slug stage; however, the slugs immediately go back probably to the previous first finger stage and stay there for approximately 37 h. Finally, the mutant fingers diversify into various multicellular bodies. The expression of the pkbR1 finger protein probably is required for development to the slug stage and to express ecmB, which is first observed in migrating slugs. The mutant also showed no ST-lacZ expression, which is of the earliest step in differentiation to one of the stalk cell subtypes. The pkbR1 null mutant forms a small number of aberrant fruiting bodies, but in the presence of 10% of wild-type amoebae the mutant preferentially forms viable spores, driving the wild type to form nonviable stalk cells. These results suggest that the mutant has defects in a system that changes the physiological dynamics in the prestalk cell region of a finger. We suggest that the arrest of its development is due to the loss of the second wave of expression of a protein kinase A catalytic subunit gene (pkaC) only in the prestalk region of the pkbR1 null mutant.

O'Day, D. H. and A. Keszei (2011). "Signalling and sex in the social amoebozoans." Biol Rev Camb Philos Soc.
	The social amoebozoans have a life tricycle consisting of asexual multicellular development leading to fruiting bodies, sexual multicellular development resulting in macrocysts, and unicellular development generating microcysts. This review covers the events of sexual development in the best-studied heterothallic (Dictyostelium discoideum) and homothallic (D. mucoroides) mating systems. Sexual development begins with pheromonal interactions that produce fusion-competent cells (gametes) which undergo cell and pronuclear fusion. Calcium- and calmodulin-mediated signalling mediates these early events. As they initiate chemotactic signalling, each zygote increases in size becoming a zygote giant cell. Using cyclic AMP (cAMP), the zygote chemotactically lures in amoebae and engulfs them in an act of cannibalistic phagocytosis. Chemotaxis proceeds more quickly than endocytosis because the breakdown products of cAMP (5-AMP, adenosine) bind to a presumptive adenosine receptor to inhibit sexual phagocytosis. This slowing of phagocytosis allows amoebae to accumulate around the zygote to form a precyst aggregate. Zygote giant cells also produce several other signalling molecules that feed back to regulate early events. The amoebae surrounding the zygote seal their fate as zygotic foodstuff by secreting a primary cellulose wall, the extracellular sheath, around the zygote and aggregated amoebae, which prevents their escape. Phagocytosis within this precyst continues until all peripheral amoebae are internalized as endocytes and the final macrocyst wall is formed. Endocyte digestion results in a mature macrocyst with a uniform cytoplasm containing a diploid nucleus. After detailing the morphological events of heterothallic and homothallic mating, we review the various intercellular signalling events and other mechanisms involved in each stage. This complete and comprehensive review sets the stage for future research on the unique events that characterize sex in the social amoebozoans.

Nunez-Corcuera, B., et al. (2011). "A SET/MYND chromatin re-modelling protein regulates Dictyostelium prespore patterning." Int J Dev Biol 55(2): 205-208.
	SmdA is a Dictyostelium orthologue of the SET/MYND chromatin re-modelling proteins. In developing structures derived from a null mutant for smdA (a smdA- strain), prestalk patterning is normal, but using a prespore lacZ reporter fusion, there is ectopic accumulation of beta-galactosidase in the prestalk region. As wild type slugs migrate, there is continual forward movement and re-differentiation of prespore cells into prestalk cells. Thus, a potential explanation for the ectopic reporter localization in smdA null prestalk cells is an increased rate of re-differentiation and anterior movement of prespore cells. In support of this notion, analysis of an unstable lacZ reporter, driven by the prespore promoter, reveals a normal staining pattern in the smdA- strain. We suggest that one or more genes regulated by SmdA acts to repress prespore re-specification.

Numata, N., et al. (2011). "C-sequence of the Dictyostelium cytoplasmic dynein participates in processivity modulation." FEBS Lett 585(8): 1185-1190.
	We examined the functional roles of C-sequence, a 47-kDa non-AAA+ module at the C-terminal end of the 380-kDa Dictyostelium dynein motor domain. When the distal segment of the C-sequence was deleted from the motor domain, the single-molecule processivity of the dimerized motor domain was selectively impaired without its ensemble motile ability and ATPase activity being severely affected. When the hinge-like sequence between the distal and proximal C-sequence segments was made more or less flexible, the dimeric motor showed lower or higher processivity, respectively. These results suggest a potential function of the distal C-sequence segment as a modulator of processivity.

Neilson, M. P., et al. (2011). "Chemotaxis: a feedback-based computational model robustly predicts multiple aspects of real cell behaviour." PLoS Biol 9(5): e1000618.
	The mechanism of eukaryotic chemotaxis remains unclear despite intensive study. The most frequently described mechanism acts through attractants causing actin polymerization, in turn leading to pseudopod formation and cell movement. We recently proposed an alternative mechanism, supported by several lines of data, in which pseudopods are made by a self-generated cycle. If chemoattractants are present, they modulate the cycle rather than directly causing actin polymerization. The aim of this work is to test the explanatory and predictive powers of such pseudopod-based models to predict the complex behaviour of cells in chemotaxis. We have now tested the effectiveness of this mechanism using a computational model of cell movement and chemotaxis based on pseudopod autocatalysis. The model reproduces a surprisingly wide range of existing data about cell movement and chemotaxis. It simulates cell polarization and persistence without stimuli and selection of accurate pseudopods when chemoattractant gradients are present. It predicts both bias of pseudopod position in low chemoattractant gradients and--unexpectedly--lateral pseudopod initiation in high gradients. To test the predictive ability of the model, we looked for untested and novel predictions. One prediction from the model is that the angle between successive pseudopods at the front of the cell will increase in proportion to the difference between the cell's direction and the direction of the gradient. We measured the angles between pseudopods in chemotaxing Dictyostelium cells under different conditions and found the results agreed with the model extremely well. Our model and data together suggest that in rapidly moving cells like Dictyostelium and neutrophils an intrinsic pseudopod cycle lies at the heart of cell motility. This implies that the mechanism behind chemotaxis relies on modification of intrinsic pseudopod behaviour, more than generation of new pseudopods or actin polymerization by chemoattractants.

Narita, T. B., et al. (2011). "Dictyostelium hybrid polyketide synthase, SteelyA, produces 4-methyl-5-pentylbenzene-1,3-diol and induces spore maturation." FEMS Microbiol Lett 319(1): 82-87.
	The genome of Dictyostelium contains two novel hybrid-type polyketide synthases (PKSs) known as 'Steely'; the Steely enzyme is formed by the fusion of type I and type III PKSs. One of these enzymes, SteelyB, is known to be responsible for the production of the stalk cell-inducing factor DIF-1 in vivo. On the other hand, the product(s) and expression pattern of SteelyA are not clearly understood, because there are two different reports associated with the in vitro products of SteelyA and its expression pattern. To solve this problem, we first examined the expression pattern using two different primer sets and found that it was quite similar to that shown in the dictyExpress database. stlA expression peaked at approximately 3 h and declined, but showed a small peak around the end of development. Next, we examined the in vivo product of SteelyA using a stlA null mutant and found that the mutant lacked 4-methyl-5-pentylbenzene-1,3-diol (MPBD). This null mutant showed aberrant, glassy sori, and most of the cells in the sori remained amoeba-like without a cell wall. This defect was restored by adding 200 nM of MPBD to the agar. These results indicate that SteelyA produces MPBD in vivo and induces spore maturation.

Nanjundiah, V. and S. Sathe (2011). "Social selection and the evolution of cooperative groups: the example of the cellular slime moulds." Integr Biol (Camb) 3(4): 329-342.
	In social selection the phenotype of an individual depends on its own genotype as well as on the phenotypes, and so genotypes, of other individuals. This makes it impossible to associate an invariant phenotype with a genotype: the social context is crucial. Descriptions of metazoan development, which often is viewed as the acme of cooperative social behaviour, ignore or downplay this fact. The implicit justification for doing so is based on a group-selectionist point of view. Namely, embryos are clones, therefore all cells have the same evolutionary interest, and the visible differences between cells result from a common strategy. The reasoning is flawed, because phenotypic heterogeneity within groups can result from contingent choices made by cells from a flexible repertoire as in multicellular development. What makes that possible is phenotypic plasticity, namely the ability of a genotype to exhibit different phenotypes. However, co-operative social behaviour with division of labour requires that different phenotypes interact appropriately, not that they belong to the same genotype, or have overlapping genetic interests. We sketch a possible route to the evolution of social groups that involves many steps: (a) individuals that happen to be in spatial proximity benefit simply by virtue of their number; (b) traits that are already present act as preadaptations and improve the efficiency of the group; and (c) new adaptations evolve under selection in the social context--that is, via interactions between individuals--and further strengthen group behaviour. The Dictyostelid or cellular slime mould amoebae (CSMs) become multicellular in an unusual way, by the aggregation of free-living cells. In nature the resulting group can be genetically homogeneous (clonal) or heterogeneous (polyclonal); in either case its development, which displays strong cooperation between cells (to the extent of so-called altruism) is not affected. This makes the CSMs exemplars for the study of social behaviour.

Nakagawa, M., et al. (2011). "A glycan of Psi-factor from Dictyostelium discoideum contains a bisecting-GlcNAc, an intersecting-GlcNAc, and a core alpha-1,6-fucose." Biosci Biotechnol Biochem 75(10): 1964-1970.
	A secretory glycoprotein named Psi-factor that we have purified and cloned from Dictyostelium discoideum is prespore cell-inducing factor. To address its functional significance, it is necessary to examine the attached sites and structures of its glycans as well as its protein structure. Here we identified and isolated a tryptic glycosylated peptide with the 71st to 89th amino acids of Psi-factor that contained the consensus amino acid sequence for an N-linked glycan (N-T-T). MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry indicated that the major protonated molecular ions, [M+H](+), of the glycopeptide were present at m/z 3,806, the minor m/z 3,603 and 3,400 ions corresponding to the loss of one and two N-acetylhexosamines respectively. Digestion of it with N-glycosidase F gave a molecular mass of 1,766.9 for the whole glycan moiety, which accounts for its composition of five hexoses, four N-acetylhexosamines, and a deoxyhexose. Further digestion experiments on the basis of the substrate specificity of alpha-mannosidase and beta-N-acetylhexosaminidase allowed us to elucidate the unique structure of the glycan, which contains a bisecting and an intersecting GlcNAc and a core alpha1,6-fucosyl moiety.

Nair, D. R., et al. (2011). "Two functionally distinctive phosphopantetheinyl transferases from amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum." PLoS One 6(9): e24262.
	The life cycle of Dictyostelium discoideum is proposed to be regulated by expression of small metabolites. Genome sequencing studies have revealed a remarkable array of genes homologous to polyketide synthases (PKSs) that are known to synthesize secondary metabolites in bacteria and fungi. A crucial step in functional activation of PKSs involves their post-translational modification catalyzed by phosphopantetheinyl transferases (PPTases). PPTases have been recently characterized from several bacteria; however, their relevance in complex life cycle of protozoa remains largely unexplored. Here we have identified and characterized two phosphopantetheinyl transferases from D. discoideum that exhibit distinct functional specificity. DiAcpS specifically modifies a stand-alone acyl carrier protein (ACP) that possesses a mitochondrial import signal. DiSfp in contrast is specific to Type I multifunctional PKS/fatty acid synthase proteins and cannot modify the stand-alone ACP. The mRNA of two PPTases can be detected during the vegetative as well as starvation-induced developmental pathway and the disruption of either of these genes results in non-viable amoebae. Our studies show that both PPTases play an important role in Dictyostelium biology and provide insight into the importance of PPTases in lower eukaryotes.

Nageshan, R. K., et al. (2011). "Post-transcriptional repair of a split heat shock protein 90 gene by mRNA trans-splicing." J Biol Chem 286(9): 7116-7122.
	Heat shock protein 90 participates in diverse biological processes ranging from protein folding, cell cycle, signal transduction and development to evolution in all eukaryotes. It is also critically involved in regulating growth of protozoa such as Dictyostelium discoideum, Leishmania donovani, Plasmodium falciparum, Trypanosoma cruzi, and Trypanosoma evansi. Selective inhibition of Hsp90 has also been explored as an intervention strategy against important human diseases such as cancer, malaria, or trypanosomiasis. Giardia lamblia, a simple protozoan parasite of humans and animals, is an important cause of diarrheal disease with significant morbidity and some mortality in tropical countries. Here we show that the G. lamblia cytosolic hsp90 (glhsp90) is split in two similar sized fragments located 777 kb apart on the same scaffold. Intrigued by this unique arrangement, which appears to be specific for the Giardiinae, we have investigated the biosynthesis of GlHsp90. We used genome sequencing to confirm the split nature of the giardial hsp90. However, a specific antibody raised against the peptide detected a product with a mass of about 80 kDa, suggesting a post-transcriptional rescue of the genomic defect. We show evidence for the joining of the two independent Hsp90 transcripts in-trans to one long mature mRNA presumably by RNA splicing. The splicing junction carries hallmarks of classical cis-spliced introns, suggesting that the regular cis-splicing machinery may be sufficient for repair of the open reading frame. A complementary 26-nt sequence in the "intron" regions adjacent to the splice sites may assist in positioning the two pre-mRNAs for processing. This is the first example of post-transcriptional rescue of a split gene by trans-splicing.

Myre, M. A., et al. (2011). "Deficiency of huntingtin has pleiotropic effects in the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum." PLoS Genet 7(4): e1002052.
	Huntingtin is a large HEAT repeat protein first identified in humans, where a polyglutamine tract expansion near the amino terminus causes a gain-of-function mechanism that leads to selective neuronal loss in Huntington's disease (HD). Genetic evidence in humans and knock-in mouse models suggests that this gain-of-function involves an increase or deregulation of some aspect of huntingtin's normal function(s), which remains poorly understood. As huntingtin shows evolutionary conservation, a powerful approach to discovering its normal biochemical role(s) is to study the effects caused by its deficiency in a model organism with a short life-cycle that comprises both cellular and multicellular developmental stages. To facilitate studies aimed at detailed knowledge of huntingtin's normal function(s), we generated a null mutant of hd, the HD ortholog in Dictyostelium discoideum. Dictyostelium cells lacking endogenous huntingtin were viable but during development did not exhibit the typical polarized morphology of Dictyostelium cells, streamed poorly to form aggregates by accretion rather than chemotaxis, showed disorganized F-actin staining, exhibited extreme sensitivity to hypoosmotic stress, and failed to form EDTA-resistant cell-cell contacts. Surprisingly, chemotactic streaming could be rescued in the presence of the bivalent cations Ca(2+) or Mg(2+) but not pulses of cAMP. Although hd(-) cells completed development, it was delayed and proceeded asynchronously, producing small fruiting bodies with round, defective spores that germinated spontaneously within a glassy sorus. When developed as chimeras with wild-type cells, hd(-) cells failed to populate the pre-spore region of the slug. In Dictyostelium, huntingtin deficiency is compatible with survival of the organism but renders cells sensitive to low osmolarity, which produces pleiotropic cell autonomous defects that affect cAMP signaling and as a consequence development. Thus, Dictyostelium provides a novel haploid organism model for genetic, cell biological, and biochemical studies to delineate the functions of the HD protein.

Muller-Taubenberger, A., et al. (2011). "The histone methyltransferase Dot1 is required for DNA damage repair and proper development in Dictyostelium." Biochem Biophys Res Commun 404(4): 1016-1022.
	Posttranslational histone modifications play an important role in modulating gene expression and chromatin structure. Here we report the identification of histone H3K79 dimethylation in the simple eukaryote Dictyostelium discoideum. We have deleted the D. discoideum Dot1/KMT4 homologue and demonstrate that it is the sole enzyme responsible for histone H3K79me2. Cells lacking Dot1 are reduced in growth and delayed in development, but do not show apparent changes in cell cycle regulation. Furthermore, our results indicate that Dot1 contributes to UV damage resistance and DNA repair in D. discoideum. In summary, the data support the view that the machinery controlling the setting of histone marks is evolutionary highly conserved and provide evidence that D. discoideum is a suitable model system to analyze these modifications and their functions during development and differentiation.

Mujumdar, N., et al. (2011). "Autonomous and non-autonomous traits mediate social cooperation in Dictyostelium discoideum." J Biosci 36(3): 505-516.
	In the trishanku (triA-) mutant of the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum, aggregates are smaller than usual and the spore mass is located mid-way up the stalk, not at the apex. We have monitored aggregate territory size, spore allocation and fruiting body morphology in chimaeric groups of (quasi-wild-type) Ax2 and triA- cells. Developmental canalisation breaks down in chimaeras and leads to an increase in phenotypic variation. A minority of triA- cells causes largely Ax2 aggregation streams to break up; the effect is not due to the counting factor. Most chimaeric fruiting bodies resemble those of Ax2 or triA-. Others are double-deckers with a single stalk and two spore masses, one each at the terminus and midway along the stalk. The relative number of spores belonging to the two genotypes depends both on the mixing ratio and on the fruiting body morphology. In double-deckers formed from 1:1 chimaeras, the upper spore mass has more Ax2 spores, and the lower spore mass more triA- spores, than expected. Thus, the traits under study depend partly on the cells' own genotype and partly on the phenotypes, and so genotypes, of other cells: they are both autonomous and non-autonomous. These findings strengthen the parallels between multicellular development and behaviour in social groups. Besides that, they reinforce the point that a trait can be associated with a genotype only in a specified context.

Moncho-Amor, V., et al. (2011). "The dual-specificity protein phosphatase MkpB, homologous to mammalian MKP phosphatases, is required for D. discoideum post-aggregative development and cisplatin response." Differentiation 81(3): 199-207.
	Dual-specificity protein phosphatases participate in signal transduction pathways inactivating mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAP kinases). These signaling pathways are of critical importance in the regulation of numerous biological processes, including cell proliferation, differentiation and development. The social ameba Dictyostelium discoideum harbors 14 genes coding for proteins containing regions very similar to the dual-specificity protein phosphatase domain. One of these genes, mkpB, additionally codes for a region similar to the Rhodanase domain, characteristic of animal MAP kinase-phosphatases, in its N-terminal region. Cells that over-express this gene show increased protein phosphatase activity. mkpB is expressed in D. discoideum ameba at growth but it is greatly induced at 12h of multicellular development. Although it is expressed in all the cells of developmental structures, mkpB mRNA is enriched in cells with a distribution typical of anterior-like cells. Cells that express a catalytically inactive mutant of MkpB grow and aggregate like wild-type cells but show a greatly impaired post-aggregative development. In addition, the expression of cell-type specific genes is very delayed, indicating that this protein plays an important role in cell differentiation and development. Cells expressing the MkpB catalytically inactive mutant show increased sensitivity to cisplatin, while cells over-expressing wild type MkpB, or MkpA, proteins or mutated in the MAP kinase erkB gene are more resistant to this chemotherapeutic drug, as also shown in human tumor cells.

Moen, R. J., et al. (2011). "Characterization of a myosin VII MyTH/FERM domain." J Mol Biol 413(1): 17-23.
	A group of closely related myosins is characterized by the presence of at least one MyTH/FERM (myosin tail homology; band 4.1, ezrin, radixin, moesin) domain in their C-terminal tails. This domain interacts with a variety of binding partners, and mutations in either the MyTH4 or the FERM domain of myosin VII and myosin XV result in deafness, highlighting the functional importance of each domain. The N-terminal MyTH/FERM region of Dictyostelium myosin VII (M7) has been isolated as a first step toward gaining insight into the function of this domain and its interaction with binding partners. The M7 MyTH4/FERM domain (MF1) binds to both actin and microtubules in vitro, with dissociation constants of 13.7 and 1.7 muM, respectively. Gel filtration and UV spectroscopy reveal that MF1 exists as a monomer in solution and forms a well-folded, compact conformation with a high degree of secondary structure. These results indicate that MF1 forms an integrated structural domain that serves to couple actin filaments and microtubules in specific regions of the cytoskeleton.

Miyata, S. T., et al. (2011). "Vibrio cholerae requires the type VI secretion system virulence factor VasX to kill Dictyostelium discoideum." Infect Immun 79(7): 2941-2949.
	The type VI secretion system (T6SS) is recognized as an important virulence mechanism in several Gram-negative pathogens. In Vibrio cholerae, the causative agent of the diarrheal disease cholera, a minimum of three gene clusters--one main cluster and two auxiliary clusters--are required to form a functional T6SS apparatus capable of conferring virulence toward eukaryotic and prokaryotic hosts. Despite an increasing understanding of the components that make up the T6SS apparatus, little is known about the regulation of these genes and the gene products delivered by this nanomachine. VasH is an important regulator of the V. cholerae T6SS. Here, we present evidence that VasH regulates the production of a newly identified protein, VasX, which in turn requires a functional T6SS for secretion. Deletion of vasX does not affect export or enzymatic function of the structural T6SS proteins Hcp and VgrG-1, suggesting that VasX is dispensable for the assembly of the physical translocon complex. VasX localizes to the bacterial membrane and interacts with membrane lipids. We present VasX as a novel virulence factor of the T6SS, as a V. cholerae mutant lacking vasX exhibits a phenotype of attenuated virulence toward Dictyostelium discoideum.

Milanesio, P., et al. (2011). "Regulatory exaptation of the catabolite repression protein (Crp)-cAMP system in Pseudomonas putida." Environ Microbiol 13(2): 324-339.
	The genome of the soil bacterium Pseudomonas putida KT2440 encodes singular orthologues of genes crp (encoding the catabolite repression protein, Crp) and cyaA (adenylate cyclase) of Escherichia coli. The levels of cAMP formed by P. putida cells were below detection with a Dictyostelium biosensor in vivo. The cyaA(P. putida) gene was transcribed in vivo but failed to complement the lack of maltose consumption of a cyaA mutant of E. coli, thereby indicating that cyaA(P. putida) was poorly translated or rendered non-functional in the heterologous host. Yet, generation of cAMP by CyaA(P. putida) could be verified by expressing the cyaA(P. putida) gene in a hypersensitive E. coli strain. On the other hand, the crp(P. putida) gene restored the metabolic capacities of an equivalent crp mutant of E. coli, but not in a double crp/cyaA strain, suggesting that the ability to regulate such functions required cAMP. In order to clarify the breadth of the Crp/cAMP system in P. putida, crp and cyaA mutants were generated and passed through a battery of phenotypic tests for recognition of gross metabolic properties and stress-endurance abilities. These assays revealed that the loss of each gene led in most (but not all) cases to the same phenotypic behaviour, indicating a concerted functionality. Unexpectedly, none of the mutations affected the panel of carbon compounds that can be used by P. putida as growth substrates, the mutants being impaired only in the use of various dipeptides as N sources. Furthermore, the lack of crp or cyaA had little influence on the gross growth fingerprinting of the cells. The poor physiological profile of the Crp-cAMP system of P. putida when compared with E. coli exposes a case of regulatory exaptation, i.e. the process through which a property evolved for a particular function is co-opted for a new use.

Meyer, I., et al. (2011). "Functional analyses of lissencephaly-related proteins in Dictyostelium." Semin Cell Dev Biol 22(1): 89-96.
	Lissencephaly is a severe brain developmental disease in human infants, which is usually caused by mutations in either of two genes, LIS1 and DCX. These genes encode proteins interacting with both the microtubule and the actin systems. Here, we review the implications of data on Dictyostelium LIS1 for the elucidation of LIS1 function in higher cells and emphasize the role of LIS1 and nuclear envelope proteins in nuclear positioning, which is also important for coordinated cell migration during neocortical development. Furthermore, for the first time we characterize Dictyostelium DCX, the only bona fide orthologue of human DCX outside the animal kingdom. We show that DCX functionally interacts with LIS1 and that both proteins have a cytoskeleton-independent function in chemotactic signaling during development. Dictyostelium LIS1 is also required for proper attachment of the centrosome to the nucleus and, thus, nuclear positioning, where the association of these two organelles has turned out to be crucial. It involves not only dynein and dynein-associated proteins such as LIS1 but also SUN proteins of the nuclear envelope. Analyses of Dictyostelium SUN1 mutants have underscored the importance of these proteins for the linkage of centrosomes and nuclei and for the maintenance of chromatin integrity. Taken together, we show that Dictyostelium amoebae, which provide a well-established model to study the basic aspects of chemotaxis, cell migration and development, are well suited for the investigation of the molecular and cell biological basis of developmental diseases such as lissencephaly.

Meier, B., et al. (2011). "Chemotactic cell trapping in controlled alternating gradient fields." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 108(28): 11417-11422.
	Directed cell migration toward spatio-temporally varying chemotactic stimuli requires rapid cytoskeletal reorganization. Numerous studies provide evidence that actin reorganization is controlled by intracellular redistribution of signaling molecules, such as the PI4,5P2/PI3,4,5P3 gradient. However, exploring underlying mechanisms is difficult and requires careful spatio-temporal control of external chemotactic stimuli. We designed a microfluidic setup to generate alternating chemotactic gradient fields for simultaneous multicell exposure, greatly facilitating statistical analysis. For a quantitative description of intracellular response dynamics, we apply alternating time sequences of spatially homogeneous concentration gradients across 300 mum, reorienting on timescales down to a few seconds. Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae respond to gradient switching rates below 0.02 Hz by readapting their migration direction. For faster switching, cellular repolarization ceases and is completely stalled at 0.1 Hz. In this "chemotactically trapped" cell state, external stimuli alternate faster than intracellular feedback is capable to respond by onset of directed migration. To investigate intracellular actin cortex rearrangement during gradient switching, we correlate migratory cell response with actin repolymerization dynamics, quantified by a fluorescence distribution moment of the GFP fusion protein LimEDeltacc. We find two fundamentally different cell polarization types and we could reveal the role of PI3-Kinase for cellular repolarization. In the early aggregation phase, PI3-Kinase enhances the capability of D. discoideum cells to readjust their polarity in response to spatially alternating gradient fields, whereas in aggregation competent cells the effect of PI3-Kinase perturbation becomes less relevant.

Maniak, M. (2011). "Dictyostelium as a model for human lysosomal and trafficking diseases." Semin Cell Dev Biol 22(1): 114-119.
	Dictyostelium cells are genetically haploid and therefore easily analyzed for mutant phenotypes. In the past, many tools and molecular markers have been developed for a quantitative and qualitative analysis of the endocytic pathway in these amoebae. This review outlines parallels and discrepancies between mutants in Dictyostelium, the corresponding mammalian cells and the symptoms of human patients affected by lysosomal and trafficking defects. Situations where knowledge from Dictyostelium may potentially help understand human disease and vice versa are also addressed.

Maeda, Y. (2011). "Cell-cycle checkpoint for transition from cell division to differentiation." Dev Growth Differ 53(4): 463-481.
	In general, growth and differentiation are mutually exclusive, but they are cooperatively regulated during the course of development. Thus, the process of a cell's transition from growth to differentiation is of general importance for the development of organisms, and terminally differentiated cells such as nerve cells never divide. Meanwhile, the growth rate speeds up when cells turn malignant. The cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum grows and multiplies as long as nutrients are supplied, and its differentiation is triggered by starvation. A critical checkpoint (growth/differentiation transition or GDT point), from which cells start differentiating in response to starvation, has been precisely specified in the cell cycle of D. discoideum Ax-2 cells. Accordingly, integration of GDT point-specific events with starvation-induced events is needed to understand the mechanism regulating GDTs. A variety of intercellular and intracellular signals are involved positively or negatively in the initiation of differentiation, making a series of cross-talks. As was expected from the presence of the GDT point, the cell's positioning in cell masses and subsequent cell-type choices occur depending on the cell's phase in the cell cycle at the onset of starvation. Since novel and multiple functions of mitochondria in various respects of development including the initiation of differentiation have been directly realized in Dictyostelium cells, they are also reviewed in this article.

Lusche, D. F., et al. (2011). "Nhe1 is essential for potassium but not calcium facilitation of cell motility and the monovalent cation requirement for chemotactic orientation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Eukaryot Cell 10(3): 320-331.
	In Dictyostelium discoideum, extracellular K+ or Ca2+ at a concentration of 40 or 20 mM, respectively, facilitates motility in the absence or presence of a spatial gradient of chemoattractant. Facilitation results in maximum velocity, cellular elongation, persistent translocation, suppression of lateral pseudopod formation, and myosin II localization in the posterior cortex. A lower threshold concentration of 15 mM K+ or Na or 5 mM Ca2+ is required for chemotactic orientation. Although the common buffer solutions used by D. discoideum researchers to study chemotaxis contain sufficient concentrations of cations for chemotactic orientation, the majority contain insufficient levels to facilitate motility. Here it has been demonstrated that Nhe1, a plasma membrane protein, is required for K+ but not Ca2+ facilitation of cell motility and for the lower K+ but not Ca2+ requirement for chemotactic orientation.

Ludtmann, M. H., et al. (2011). "Molecular pharmacology in a simple model system: implicating MAP kinase and phosphoinositide signalling in bipolar disorder." Semin Cell Dev Biol 22(1): 105-113.
	Understanding the mechanisms of drug action has been the primary focus for pharmacological researchers, traditionally using rodent models. However, non-sentient model systems are now increasingly being used as an alternative approach to better understand drug action or targets. One of these model systems, the social amoeba Dictyostelium, enables the rapid ablation or over-expression of genes, and the subsequent use of isogenic cell culture for the analysis of cell signalling pathways in pharmacological research. The model also supports an increasingly important ethical view of research, involving the reduction, replacement and refinement of animals in biomedical research. This review outlines the use of Dictyostelium in understanding the pharmacological action of two commonly used bipolar disorder treatments (valproic acid and lithium). Both of these compounds regulate mitogen activated protein (MAP) kinase and inositol phospholipid-based signalling by unknown means. Analysis of the molecular pathways targeted by these drugs in Dictyostelium and translation of discoveries to animal systems has helped to further understand the molecular mechanisms of these bipolar disorder treatments.

Luciani, M. F., et al. (2011). "Atg1 allows second-signaled autophagic cell death in Dictyostelium." Autophagy 7(5): 501-508.
	We investigated the role of Atg1 in autophagic cell death (ACD) in a Dictyostelium monolayer model. The model is especially propitious, not only because of genetic tractability and absence of apoptosis machinery, but also because induction of ACD requires two successive exogenous signals, first the combination of starvation and cAMP, second the differentiation factor DIF-1. This enables one to analyze separately first-signal-induced autophagy and subsequent second-signal-induced ACD. We used mutants of atg1, a gene that plays an essential role in the initiation of autophagy. Upon starvation/cAMP, in contrast to parental cells, atg1 mutant cells showed irreversible lesions, clearly establishing a protective role for Atg1. Upon subsequent exposure to DIF-1 or to more ACD-specific second signals, starved parental cells progressed to ACD, but starved atg1 mutant cells did not, showing that Atg1 was required for ACD. Thus, in the same cells Atg1 was required in two apparently opposite ways, upon first-signaling for cell survival and upon second-signaling for ACD. Our findings strongly suggest that Atg1, thus presumably autophagy, protects the cells from starvation-induced cell death, allowing subsequent induction of ACD by the second signal. ACD is therefore not only "with" autophagy (since it showed signs of autophagy throughout), but is also "allowed by" autophagy. This does not exclude a role for autophagy also after second signaling. These results may account for discrepancies reported in the literature, encourage searches for second signals in different developmental models of ACD, and incite caution in autophagy-related therapeutic attempts.

Loomis, W. F. and G. Shaulsky (2011). "Developmental changes in transcriptional profiles." Dev Growth Differ 53(4): 567-575.
	Recent advances in quantitation of mRNA by hybridization to microarrayed gene sequences or by deep sequencing of cDNA (RNA-seq) have provided global views of the abundance of each transcript. Analyses of RNA samples taken at 2 or 4 h intervals throughout development of Dictyostelium discoideum have defined the developmental changes in transcriptional profiles. Comparisons of the transcriptome of wild-type cells to that of mutant strains lacking a gene critical to progression through the developmental stages have defined key steps in the progression. The transcriptional response to cAMP pulses depends on the expression of pulse-independent genes that have been identified by transcriptional profiling with microarrays. Similar techniques were used to discover that the DNA binding protein GBF functions in a feed-forward loop to regulate post-aggregation genes and that expression of a set of late genes during culmination is dependent on the DNA binding protein SrfA. RNA-seq is able to reliably measure individual mRNAs present as a single copy per cell as well as mRNAs present at a thousand fold higher abundance. Using this technique it was found that 65% of the genes in Dictyostelium change twofold or more during development. Many decrease during the first 8 h of development, while the rest increase at specific stages and this pattern is evolutionarily conserved as found by comparing the transcriptomes of D. discoideum and Dictyostelium purpureum. The transcriptional profile of each gene is readily available at dictyBase and more sophisticated analyses are available on DictyExpress.

Liu, P. and Y. Li (2011). "New species and new records of dictyostelids from Ukraine." Mycologia 103(3): 641-645.
	Three species of dictyostelid cellular slime molds were isolated from forest soil, meadow soil and leaf litter collected from Yalta, Crimea, Ukraine. Dictyostelium globisporum is new to science; D. crassicaule and D. sphaerocephalum are new records from Ukraine. Descriptions and illustrations are given based on the Ukraine specimens.

Linkner, J., et al. (2011). "High-resolution X-ray structure of the trimeric Scar/WAVE-complex precursor Brk1." PLoS One 6(6): e21327.
	The Scar/WAVE-complex links upstream Rho-GTPase signaling to the activation of the conserved Arp2/3-complex. Scar/WAVE-induced and Arp2/3-complex-mediated actin nucleation is crucial for actin assembly in protruding lamellipodia to drive cell migration. The heteropentameric Scar/WAVE-complex is composed of Scar/WAVE, Abi, Nap, Pir and a small polypeptide Brk1/HSPC300, and recent work suggested that free Brk1 serves as a homooligomeric precursor in the assembly of this complex. Here we characterized the Brk1 trimer from Dictyostelium by analytical ultracentrifugation and gelfiltration. We show for the first time its dissociation at concentrations in the nanomolar range as well as an exchange of subunits within different DdBrk1 containing complexes. Moreover, we determined the three-dimensional structure of DdBrk1 at 1.5 A resolution by X-ray crystallography. Three chains of DdBrk1 are associated with each other forming a parallel triple coiled-coil bundle. Notably, this structure is highly similar to the heterotrimeric alpha-helical bundle of HSPC300/WAVE1/Abi2 within the human Scar/WAVE-complex. This finding, together with the fact that Brk1 is collectively sandwiched by the remaining subunits and also constitutes the main subunit connecting the triple-coil domain of the HSPC300/WAVE1/Abi2/ heterotrimer to Sra1(Pir1), implies a critical function of this subunit in the assembly process of the entire Scar/WAVE-complex.

Lima, W. C., et al. (2011). "What can Dictyostelium bring to the study of Pseudomonas infections?" Semin Cell Dev Biol 22(1): 77-81.
	Bacterial infections are complex events. They are studied in a variety of simple model systems, using mammalian or non-mammalian hosts, all of which fail to reproduce fully the situation in infected patients. Each model presents a combination of conceptual, practical, and ethical advantages and disadvantages. In this review, we detail the use of Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae as a model to study Pseudomonas aeruginosa. More specifically, our aim is to explore what this additional model system can bring to our understanding of Pseudomonas infections. The study of interactions between Dictyostelium amoebae and Pseudomonas provides a view of the selection pressures exerted by environmental predators on Pseudomonas. It also represents a unique system to assess the virulence of very large numbers of Pseudomonas strains.

Lienard, J., et al. (2011). "Estrella lausannensis, a new star in the Chlamydiales order." Microbes Infect 13(14-15): 1232-1241.
	Originally, the Chlamydiales order was represented by a single family, the Chlamydiaceae, composed of several pathogens, such as Chlamydia trachomatis, Chlamydia pneumoniae, Chlamydia psittaci and Chlamydia abortus. Recently, 6 new families of Chlamydia-related bacteria have been added to the Chlamydiales order. Most of these obligate intracellular bacteria are able to replicate in free-living amoebae. Amoebal co-culture may be used to selectively isolate amoeba-resisting bacteria. This method allowed in a previous work to discover strain CRIB 30, from an environmental water sample. Based on its 16S rRNA gene sequence similarity with Criblamydia sequanensis, strain CRIB 30 was considered as a new member of the Criblamydiaceae family. In the present work, phylogenetic analyses of the genes gyrA, gyrB, rpoA, rpoB, secY, topA and 23S rRNA as well as MALDI-TOF MS confirmed the taxonomic classification of strain CRIB 30. Morphological examination revealed peculiar star-shaped elementary bodies (EBs) similar to those of C. sequanensis. Therefore, this new strain was called "Estrella lausannensis". Finally, E. lausannensis showed a large amoebal host range and a very efficient replication rate in Acanthamoeba species. Furthermore, E. lausannensis is the first member of the Chlamydiales order to grow successfully in the genetically tractable Dictyostelium discoideum, which opens new perspectives in the study of chlamydial biology.

Li, S. I. and M. D. Purugganan (2011). "The cooperative amoeba: Dictyostelium as a model for social evolution." Trends Genet 27(2): 48-54.
	Social interactions, including cooperation and altruism, are characteristic of numerous species, but many aspects of the evolution, ecology and genetics of social behavior remain unclear. The microbial soil amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum is a model system for the study of social evolution and provides insights into the nature of social cooperation and its genetic basis. This species exhibits altruism during both asexual and sexual cycles of its life history, and recent studies have uncovered several possible genetic mechanisms associated with kin discrimination and cheating behavior during asexual fruiting-body formation. By contrast, the molecular and evolutionary mechanisms that underlie sexual macrocyst formation remain largely enigmatic. D. discoideum, given its utility in molecular genetic studies, should continue to help us address these and other relevant questions in sociobiology, and thereby contribute to a coherent theoretical framework for the nature of social cooperation.

Li, L., et al. (2011). "'Dicty dynamics': Dictyostelium motility as persistent random motion." Phys Biol 8(4): 046006.
	We model the motility of Dictyostelium cells in a systematic data-driven manner. We deduce a minimal dynamical model that reproduces the statistical features of experimental trajectories. These are trajectories of the centroid of the cell perimeter, which is more sensitive to pseudopod activity than the usual tracking by centroid or nucleus. Our data account for cell individuality and dictate a model that extends the cell-type specific models recently derived for mammalian cells. Two generalized Langevin equations model stochastic periodic pseudopod motion parallel and orthogonal to the amoeba's direction of motion. This motion propels the amoeba with a random periodic left-right waddle in a direction that has a long persistence time. The model fully accounts for the statistics of the experimental trajectories, including velocity power spectra and auto-correlations, non-Gaussian velocity distributions, and multiplicative noise. Thus, we find neither need nor place in our data for an interpretation in terms of anomalous diffusion. The model faithfully captures cell individuality as different parameter values in the model, and serves as a basis for integrating the local mechanics of cell motion with our observed long-term behavior.

Lelong, E., et al. (2011). "Evolution of Pseudomonas aeruginosa virulence in infected patients revealed in a Dictyostelium discoideum host model." Clin Microbiol Infect 17(9): 1415-1420.
	Pseudomonas aeruginosa can cause acute lung infections in intubated patients or chronic infections in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF). In both situations, P. aeruginosa accumulates specific mutations, in particular in the lasR quorum-sensing regulator gene. Using a Dictyostelium discoideum amoeba model, we assessed whether these mutations affect bacterial virulence. Among a collection of clinical isolates from 16 CF patients, initial isolates were fully virulent in 15 patients, but for late isolates collected several years later, virulence was decreased in eight patients. No significant correlation between genetic inactivation of lasR and decreased virulence was observed. Among strains isolated from ten colonized intubated patients, all initial isolates were fully virulent. Despite the accumulation of lasR-inactivating mutations in strains collected over a 3-week period, no decrease in virulence was observed in eight of 10 patients. In one intubated patient, the virulent initial strain was replaced a few days later with a different, less virulent, strain. We observed a gradual decrease in bacterial virulence in only one intubated patient. We conclude that adaptation of P. aeruginosa to chronically infected CF patients can lead to a slow and gradual loss of virulence, as measured in a Dictyostelium model system. However, loss of virulence is not caused predominantly by mutations in lasR. During short-term colonization of intubated patients for up to 20 days, a decrease in virulence was exceptional, despite the accumulation of lasR mutations.

Lelong, E., et al. (2011). "Role of magnesium and a phagosomal P-type ATPase in intracellular bacterial killing." Cell Microbiol 13(2): 246-258.
	Bacterial ingestion and killing by phagocytic cells are essential processes to protect the human body from infectious microorganisms. However, only few proteins implicated in intracellular bacterial killing have been identified to date. We used Dictyostelium discoideum, a phagocytic bacterial predator, to study intracellular killing. In a random genetic screen we identified Kil2, a type V P-ATPase as an essential element for efficient intracellular killing of Klebsiella pneumoniae bacteria. Interestingly, kil2 knockout cells still killed efficiently several other species of bacteria, and did not show enhanced susceptibility to Mycobacterium marinum intracellular replication. Kil2 is present in the phagosomal membrane, and its structure suggests that it pumps cations into the phagosomal lumen. The killing defect of kil2 knockout cells was rescued by the addition of magnesium ions, suggesting that Kil2 may function as a magnesium pump. In agreement with this, kil2 mutant cells exhibited a specific defect for growth at high concentrations of magnesium. Phagosomal protease activity was lower in kil2 mutant cells than in wild-type cells, a phenotype reversed by the addition of magnesium to the medium. Kil2 may act as a magnesium pump maintaining magnesium concentration in phagosomes, thus ensuring optimal activity of phagosomal proteases and efficient killing of bacteria.

Lahr, D. J., et al. (2011). "Evolution of the actin gene family in testate lobose amoebae (Arcellinida) is characterized by two distinct clades of paralogs and recent independent expansions." Mol Biol Evol 28(1): 223-236.
	The evolution of actin gene families is characterized by independent expansions and contractions across the eukaryotic tree of life. Here, we assess diversity of actin gene sequences within three lineages of the genus Arcella, a free-living testate (shelled) amoeba in the Arcellinida. We established four clonal lines of two morphospecies, Arcella hemisphaerica and A. vulgaris, and assessed their phylogenetic relationship within the "Amoebozoa" using small subunit ribosomal DNA (SSU-rDNA) genealogy. We determined that the two lines of A. hemisphaerica are identical in SSU-rDNA, while the two A. vulgaris are independent genetic lineages. Furthermore, we characterized multiple actin gene copies from all lineages. Analyses of the resulting sequences reveal numerous diverse actin genes, which differ mostly by synonymous substitutions. We estimate that the actin gene family contains 40-50 paralogous members in each lineage. None of the three independent lineages share the same paralog with another, and divergence between actins reaches 29% in contrast to just 2% in SSU-rDNA. Analyses of effective number of codons (ENC), compositional bias, recombination signatures, and genetic diversity in the context of a gene tree indicate that there are two groups of actins evolving with distinct patterns of molecular evolution. Within these groups, there have been multiple independent expansions of actin genes within each lineage. Together, these data suggest that the two groups are located in different regions of the Arcella genome. Furthermore, we compare the Arcella actin gene family with the relatively well-described gene family in the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum and other members of the Amoebozoa clade. Overall patterns of molecular evolution are similar in Arcella and Dictyostelium. However, the separation of genes in two distinct groups coupled with recent expansion is characteristic of Arcella and might reflect an unusual pattern of gene family evolution in the lobose testate amoebae. We provide a model to account for both the existence of two distinct groups and the pattern of recent independent expansion leading to a large number of actins in each lineage.

Kuzdzal-Fick, J. J., et al. (2011). "High relatedness is necessary and sufficient to maintain multicellularity in Dictyostelium." Science 334(6062): 1548-1551.
	Most complex multicellular organisms develop clonally from a single cell. This should limit conflicts between cell lineages that could threaten the extensive cooperation of cells within multicellular bodies. Cellular composition can be manipulated in the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum, which allows us to test and confirm the two key predictions of this theory. Experimental evolution at low relatedness favored cheating mutants that could destroy multicellular development. However, under high relatedness, the forces of mutation and within-individual selection are too small for these destructive cheaters to spread, as shown by a mutation accumulation experiment. Thus, we conclude that the single-cell bottleneck is a powerful stabilizer of cellular cooperation in multicellular organisms.

Kuwayama, H., et al. (2011). "Artificial compounds differentially control Dictyostelium chemotaxis and cell differentiation." Cell Struct Funct 36(1): 21-26.
	Differentiation-inducing factor-1 and -2 (DIF-1 and DIF-2) are small lipophilic signal molecules that control both cell differentiation and chemotaxis in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. In this study, we examined the effects of four amide derivatives of DIF-1 on stalk cell differentiation and chemotaxis. The DIF derivatives differentially affected cell differentiation and chemotaxis, suggesting the possible existence of at least three receptors for DIFs: one receptor responsible for stalk cell induction, and two receptors responsible for chemotaxis modulation. Furthermore, our results indicate that DIF derivatives can be utilized to analyze the DIF-signaling pathways.

Krauss, V. and G. Reuter (2011). "DNA methylation in Drosophila--a critical evaluation." Prog Mol Biol Transl Sci 101: 177-191.
	Drosophila belongs to the so-called "Dnmt2 only" organisms, and does not contain any of the canonical DNA methyltransferases (Dnmt1 and Dnmt3). Furthermore, no functional homologs of known 5-methylcytosine reader proteins are found. Nevertheless, there is strong evidence for DNA methylation in this organism. It has been suggested that DNA methylation in Drosophila is simply a byproduct of Dnmt2, which is a DNA methyltransferase (Dnmt) according to structure and type of catalysis but functions in vivo as a tRNA methyltransferase. However, concerning the very specific timing of cytosine methylation in Drosophila, their suggested functions in control of retrotransposon silencing and genome stability, and the obvious DNA methylation activity of Dnmt2 enzymes in the protozoans Dictyostelium discoideum and Entamoeba histolytica, we tend to disagree with this notation. Dnmt2 probably serves, and not only in Drosophila, as a methyltransferase of both specific DNA and tRNA targets.

Kowal, A. S. and R. L. Chisholm (2011). "Uncovering a role for the tail of the Dictyostelium discoideum SadA protein in cell-substrate adhesion." Eukaryot Cell 10(5): 662-671.
	Previous work from our laboratory showed that the Dictyostelium discoideum SadA protein plays a central role in cell-substrate adhesion. SadA null cells exhibit a loss of adhesion, a disrupted actin cytoskeleton, and a cytokinesis defect. How SadA mediates these phenotypes is unknown. This work addresses the mechanism of SadA function, demonstrating an important role for the C-terminal cytoplasmic tail in SadA function. We found that a SadA tailless mutant was unable to rescue the sadA adhesion deficiency, and overexpression of the SadA tail domain reduced adhesion in wild-type cells. We also show that SadA is closely associated with the actin cytoskeleton. Mutagenesis studies suggested that four serine residues in the tail, S924/S925 and S940/S941, may regulate association of SadA with the actin cytoskeleton. Glutathione S-transferase pull-down assays identified at least one likely interaction partner of the SadA tail, cortexillin I, a known actin bundling protein. Thus, our data demonstrate an important role for the carboxy-terminal cytoplasmic tail in SadA function and strongly suggest that a phosphorylation event in this tail regulates an interaction with cortexillin I. Based on our data, we propose a model for the function of SadA.

Kortholt, A., et al. (2011). "Dictyostelium chemotaxis: essential Ras activation and accessory signalling pathways for amplification." EMBO Rep 12(12): 1273-1279.
	Central to chemotaxis is the molecular mechanism by which cells exhibit directed movement in shallow gradients of a chemoattractant. We used Dictyostelium mutants to investigate the minimal requirements for chemotaxis, and identified a basal signalling module providing activation of Ras at the leading edge, which is sufficient for chemotaxis. The signalling enzymes PI3K, TorC2, PLA2 and sGC are not required for Ras activation and chemotaxis to folate or to steep gradients of cAMP, but they provide a memory of direction and improved orientation of the cell, which together increase the sensitivity about 150-fold for chemotaxis in shallow cAMP gradients.

Korohoda, W., et al. (2011). "Solute-dependent activation of cell motility in strongly hypertonic solutions in Dictyostelium discoideum, human melanoma HTB-140 cells and walker 256 carcinosarcoma cells." Cell Mol Biol Lett 16(3): 412-430.
	Published data concerning the effects of hypertonicity on cell motility have often been controversial. The interpretation of results often rests on the premise that cell responses result from cell dehydration, i.e. osmotic effects. The results of induced hypertonicity on cell movement of Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae and human melanoma HTB-140 cells reported here show that: i) hypertonic solutions of identical osmolarity will either inhibit or stimulate cell movement depending on specific solutes (Na(+) or K(+), sorbitol or saccharose); ii) inhibition of cell motility by hypertonic solutions containing Na(+) ions or carbohydrates can be reversed by the addition of calcium ions; iii) various cell types react differently to the same solutions, and iv) cells can adapt to hypertonic solutions. Various hypertonic solutions are now broadly used in medicine and to study modulation of gene expression. The observations reported suggest the need to examine whether the other responses of cells to hypertonicity can also be based on the solute-dependent cell responses besides cell dehydration due to the osmotic effects.

Kon, T., et al. (2011). "X-ray structure of a functional full-length dynein motor domain." Nat Struct Mol Biol 18(6): 638-642.
	Dyneins are large microtubule-based motors that power a wide variety of cellular processes. Here we report a 4.5-A X-ray crystallographic analysis of the entire functional motor domain of cytoplasmic dynein with ADP from Dictyostelium discoideum, which has revealed the detailed architecture of the functional units required for motor activity, including the ATP-hydrolyzing ring, the long coiled-coil microtubule-binding stalk and the force-generating rod-like linker. We discovered a Y-shaped protrusion composed of two long coiled coils-the stalk and the newly identified 'strut'. This structure supports our model in which the strut coiled coil actively contributes to communication between the primary ATPase site in the ring and the microtubule-binding site at the tip of the stalk coiled coil. Our work also provides insight into how the two motor domains are arranged and how they interact with each other in a functional dimer form of cytoplasmic dynein.

Klein, J. C., et al. (2011). "Structural and functional impact of site-directed methionine oxidation in myosin." Biochemistry 50(47): 10318-10327.
	We have examined the structural and functional effects of site-directed methionine oxidation in Dictyostelium (Dicty) myosin II using mutagenesis, in vitro oxidation, and site-directed spin-labeling for electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR). Protein oxidation by reactive oxygen and nitrogen species is critical for normal cellular function, but oxidative stress has been implicated in disease progression and biological aging. Our goal is to bridge understanding of protein oxidation and muscle dysfunction with molecular-level insights into actomyosin interaction. In order to focus on methionine oxidation and to facilitate site-directed spectroscopy, we started with a Cys-lite version of Dicty myosin II. For Dicty myosin containing native methionines, peroxide treatment decreased actin-activated myosin ATPase activity, consistent with the decline in actomyosin function previously observed in biologically aged or peroxide-treated muscle. Methionine-to-leucine mutations, used to protect specific sites from oxidation, identified a single methionine that is functionally sensitive to oxidation: M394, near the myosin cardiomyopathy loop in the actin-binding interface. Previously characterized myosin labeling sites for spectroscopy in the force-producing region and actin-binding cleft were examined; spin-label mobility and distance measurements in the actin-binding cleft were sensitive to oxidation, but particularly in the presence of actin. Overall secondary structure and thermal stability were unaffected by oxidation. We conclude that the oxidation-induced structural change in myosin includes a redistribution of existing structural states of the actin-binding cleft. These results will be applicable to the many biological and therapeutic contexts in which a detailed understanding of protein oxidation as well as function and structure relationships is sought.

King, J. S., et al. (2011). "The induction of autophagy by mechanical stress." Autophagy 7(12).
	The ability to respond and adapt to changes in the physical environment is a universal and essential cellular property. Here we demonstrate that cells respond to mechanical compressive stress by rapidly inducing autophagosome formation. We measure this response in both Dictyostelium and mammalian cells, indicating that this is an evolutionarily conserved, general response to mechanical stress. In Dictyostelium, the number of autophagosomes increases 20 fold within 10 minutes of 1kPa pressure being applied and a similar response is seen in mammalian cells after 30 minutes. We show in both cell types that autophagy is highly sensitive to changes in mechanical pressure and the response is graduated, with a half-maximal responses at ~0.2kPa, similar to other mechano-sensitive responses. We further show that the mechanical induction of autophagy is TOR-independent and transient, lasting until the cells adapt to their new environment and recover their shape. The autophagic response is therefore part of an integrated response to mechanical challenge, allowing cells to cope with a continuously changing physical environment.

Kim, M. K., et al. (2011). "Crystallization and preliminary X-ray crystallographic analysis of the short-chain dehydrogenase/reductase-type DDB_G0291732 protein from Dictyostelium discoideum." Acta Crystallogr Sect F Struct Biol Cryst Commun 67(Pt 1): 98-100.
	The DDB_G0291732 gene product from Dictyostelium discoideum, which is a NmrA-like protein that belongs to the short-chain dehydrogenase/reductase superfamily but shows deviations in conserved sequence regions, has been crystallized by the hanging-drop vapour-diffusion method at 295 K. A 1.65 A resolution data set was collected using synchrotron radiation. The crystals of DDB_G0291732 protein belonged to space group P2(1), with unit-cell parameters a=38.5, b=63.7, c=56.0 A, beta=91.7 degrees . Assuming the presence of one molecule in the asymmetric unit, the solvent content was estimated to be about 38.1%.

Kim, M. K., et al. (2011). "Crystallization and preliminary X-ray crystallographic analysis of the NmrA-like DDB_G0286605 protein from the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum." Acta Crystallogr Sect F Struct Biol Cryst Commun 67(Pt 1): 94-97.
	The DDB_G0286605 gene product from Dictyostelium discoideum, an NmrA-like protein that belongs to the short-chain dehydrogenase/reductase family, has been crystallized by the hanging-drop vapour-diffusion method at 295 K. A 1.64 A resolution data set was collected using synchrotron radiation. The DDB_G0286605 protein crystals belonged to space group P2(1), with unit-cell parameters a=67.598, b=54.935, c=84.219 A, beta = 109.620 degrees . Assuming the presence of two molecules in the asymmetric unit, the solvent content was estimated to be about 43.25% with 99% probability. Molecular-replacement trials were attempted with three NmrA-like proteins, NmrA, HSCARG and QOR2, as search models, but failed. This may be a consequence of the low sequence identity between the DDB_G0286605 protein and the search models (DDB_G0286605 has a primary-sequence identity of 28, 32 and 19% to NmrA, HCARG and QOR2, respectively).

Kim, L., et al. (2011). "Combinatorial cell-specific regulation of GSK3 directs cell differentiation and polarity in Dictyostelium." Development 138(3): 421-430.
	In Dictyostelium, the interaction of secreted cAMP with specific cell surface receptors regulates the activation/de-activation of GSK3, which mediates developmental cell patterning. In addition, Dictyostelium cells polarize in response to extracellular cAMP, although a potential role for GSK3 in this pathway has not been investigated. Previously, we had shown that ZAK1 was an activating tyrosine kinase for GSK3 function in Dictyostelium and we now identify ZAK2 as the other tyrosine kinase in the cAMP-activation pathway for GSK3; no additional family members exist. We also now show that tyrosine phosphorylation/activation of GSK3 by ZAK2 and ZAK1 separately regulate GSK3 in distinct differentiated cell populations, and that ZAK2 acts in both autonomous and non-autonomous pathways to regulate these cell-type differentiations. Finally, we demonstrate that efficient polarization of Dictyostelium towards cAMP depends on ZAK1-mediated tyrosine phosphorylation of GSK3. Combinatorial regulation of GSK3 by ZAK kinases in Dictyostelium guides cell polarity, directional cell migration and cell differentiation, pathways that extend the complexity of GSK3 signaling throughout the development of Dictyostelium.

Kim, J. S., et al. (2011). "Homeoprotein Hbx4 represses the expression of the adhesion molecule DdCAD-1 governing cytokinesis and development." FEBS Lett 585(12): 1864-1872.
	We investigated the function of homeodomain-containing protein Hbx4 in Dictyostelium discoideum. Hbx4-overexpressing cells (Hbx4(OE)) displayed defects in growth rate and cytokinesis and showed differences in slug motility and cell-type proportioning from KAx3. Furthermore, the overexpression of Hbx4 inhibited the induction of cadA, which encoded the Ca(2+)-dependent cell adhesion molecule DdCAD-1, despite expression of csaA and gpaB. The electrophoretic mobility shift assay showed that the promoter of cadA contained the Hbx4-binding site. Moreover, constitutively expressed DdCAD-1 in Hbx4(OE) rescued the defects in cytokinesis and development. These results suggest that Hbx4 modulates DdCAD-1-mediated cytokinesis and cell-type proportioning.

Kim, H. L., et al. (2011). "Tetrahydrobiopterin is functionally distinguishable from tetrahydrodictyopterin in Dictyostelium discoideum Ax2." FEBS Lett 585(19): 3047-3051.
	Dictyostelium discoideum Ax2 produces both L-erythro-tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4) and its stereoisomer D-threo-BH4 (DH4). The putative cofactor function of them for phenylalanine hydroxylase (PAH) was investigated through genetic manipulation and quantitative determination of pteridines. In addition to establishing that dihydropteridine reductase (DHPR) and dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) constitute the regeneration pathway of both BH4 and DH4, the results suggested that BH4 is a preferential cofactor for PAH in vivo, not a secondary product of DH4, which functions mainly as an antioxidant. Our result also demonstrated that PAH may be essential for Dictyostelium growth in nature, and thus it appears that the organism has evolved a strategy to maintain BH4 level via regeneration pathway at the expense of DH4 under oxidative stress conditions.

Kim, D. N., et al. (2011). "Conformational dynamics of supramolecular protein assemblies." J Struct Biol 173(2): 261-270.
	Supramolecular protein assemblies including molecular motors, cytoskeletal filaments, chaperones, and ribosomes play a central role in a broad array of cellular functions ranging from cell division and motility to RNA and protein synthesis and folding. Single-particle reconstructions of such assemblies have been growing rapidly in recent years, providing increasingly high resolution structural information under native conditions. While the static structure of these assemblies provides essential insight into their mechanism of biological function, their dynamical motions provide additional important information that cannot be inferred from structure alone. Here we present an unsupervised computational framework for the analysis of high molecular weight protein assemblies and use it to analyze the conformational dynamics of structures deposited in the Electron Microscopy Data Bank. Protein assemblies are modeled using a recently introduced coarse-grained modeling framework based on the finite element method, which is used to compute equilibrium thermal fluctuations, elastic strain energy distributions associated with specific conformational transitions, and dynamical correlations in distant molecular domains. Results are presented in detail for the ribosome-bound termination factor RF2 from Escherichia coli, the nuclear pore complex from Dictyostelium discoideum, and the chaperonin GroEL from E. coli. Elastic strain energy distributions reveal hinge-regions associated with specific conformational change pathways, and correlations in collective molecular motions reveal dynamical coupling between distant molecular domains that suggest new, as well as confirm existing, allosteric mechanisms. Results are publically available for use in further investigation and interpretation of biological function including cooperative transitions, allosteric communication, and molecular mechanics, as well as in further classification and refinement of electron microscopy based structures.

Kihara, K., et al. (2011). "Probabilistic transition from unstable predator-prey interaction to stable coexistence of Dictyostelium discoideum and Escherichia coli." Biosystems 103(3): 342-347.
	Predator-prey interactions have been found at all levels within ecosystems. Despite their ecological ubiquity and importance, the process of transition to a stable coexistent state has been poorly verified experimentally. To investigate the stabilization process of predator-prey interactions, we previously constructed a reproducible experimental predator-prey system between Dictyostelium discoideum and Escherichia coli, and showed that the phenotypically changed E. coli contributed to stabilization of the system. In the present study, we focused on the transition to stable coexistence of both species after the phenotypic change in E. coli. Analysis of E. coli cells isolated from co-culture plates as single colony enabled us to readily identify the appearance of phenotypically changed E. coli that differed in colony morphology and growth rate. It was also demonstrated that two types of viscous colony, i.e., the dense-type and sparse-type, differing in spatial distribution of both species emerged probabilistically and all of the viscous colonies maintained stably were of the sparse-type. These results suggest that the phenotypically changed E. coli may produce two types of viscous colonies probabilistically. The difference in spatial distribution would affect localized interactions between both species and then cause probabilistic stabilization of predator-prey interactions.

Kawata, T., et al. (2011). "Evidence for a functional link between Dd-STATa and Dd-PIAS, a Dictyostelium PIAS homologue." Dev Growth Differ 53(7): 897-909.
	Several mammalian protein families inhibit the activity of signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) proteins. The protein inhibitor of activated STAT (PIAS) was initially identified through its ability to interact with human STAT proteins. We isolated a gene (pisA) encoding a Dictyostelium orthologue of PIAS, Dd-PIAS, which possesses almost all the representative motifs and domains of mammalian PIAS proteins. A Dd-PIAS null mutant strain displays a normal terminal morphology but with accelerated development once cells are aggregated. In contrast, Dd-PIAS overexpressor strains demonstrate delayed aggregation, almost no slug phototaxis, impaired slug motility, and a prolonged slug migration period. This strain is a near phenocopy of the Dd-STATa null mutant, although it eventually forms a fruiting body, albeit inefficiently. The expression of several Dd-STATa-activated genes is upregulated in the Dd-PIAS null mutant and there is ectopic expression of pstAB makers. The concentration of a PIAS-green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion protein, expressed under the PIAS promoter, is greatest in the pstO cells and gradually decreases with proximity to the tip of the slug and culminant: a pattern diametrically opposite to that of Dd-STATa. Our results suggest a functional interrelationship between Dd-PIAS and Dd-STATa that influences gene expression and development.

Kawata, T. (2011). "STAT signaling in Dictyostelium development." Dev Growth Differ 53(4): 548-557.
	Signal transducers and activators of transcription (STAT) proteins are one of the important mediators of phosphotyrosine-regulated signaling in metazoan cells. These proteins are components of JAK/STAT signal transduction pathways, which regulate immune responses, cell fate, proliferation, cell migration, and programmed cell death in multicellular organisms. The cellular slime mould, Dictyostelium discoideum, is the simplest multicellular organism using molecules homologous to STATs, Dd-STATa-d. The Dd-STATa null mutant displays delayed aggregation, no phototaxis and fails culmination. Here, the functions of Dictyostelium STATs during development and their associated signaling molecules are discussed.

Kastner, P. M., et al. (2011). "The NDR family kinase NdrA of Dictyostelium localizes to the centrosome and is required for efficient phagocytosis." Traffic 12(3): 301-312.
	Dictyostelium discoideum cells are professional phagocytes that provide an easily accessible system to gain insights into the mechanisms and the regulatory machinery controlling phagocytosis. Here, we describe a novel function for nuclear Dbf2-related (NDR) family kinases in phagocytosis of D. discoideum. Deletion of one of the four NDR kinases of D. discoideum, NdrA, resulted in impaired cell growth caused by reduced phagocytosis rates. Detailed analysis of NdrA-null cells revealed that the formation of phagocytic cups was delayed. Microscopic investigations showed that NdrA localizes to centrosomes, and NdrA was also identified in isolated centrosome preparations. The localization of NdrA is regulated during the cell cycle. In prophase, NdrA disappears from the centrosome and forms a cloud-like structure around the spindle, which is totally absent during later stages until completion of mitosis. Our results suggest that a signal which originates from the NdrA kinase at the centrosome affects the efficiency of phagocytosis. We assume that in NdrA-null cells the defects in phagocytosis may be caused by an impairment of vesicle trafficking, which is involved in providing new membrane at the sites of particle uptake.

Kamino, K., et al. (2011). "Collective oscillations in developing cells: insights from simple systems." Dev Growth Differ 53(4): 503-517.
	From hormonal secretion to gene expression, multicellular dynamics are rich in oscillatory regulation. When organized in space and time, periodic cell-cell signaling can give rise to long-range coordination of gene expression and cell movement in tissues. Lack of synchrony of the oscillations on the other hand can serve as a source of initial divergence of cell fate in stem cells. How properties of individual cells can account for collective rhythmic behaviors at the tissue level remains elusive in most cases. Recently, studies in chemical reactions, synthetic gene circuits, yeast and social amoeba Dictyostelium have greatly enhanced our view of collective oscillations in cell populations. From these relatively simple systems, a unified view of how excitable and oscillatory regulations could be tuned and coupled to give rise to tissue-level oscillations is emerging. The review focuses on recent progress in cyclic adenosine monophosphate oscillations in Dictyostelium and highlights similarities and differences with other systems. We will see that the autonomy of single-cell level oscillations and different ways in which cells are coupled influence how group-level information can be encoded in collective oscillations.

Kalla, S. E., et al. (2011). "Kin discrimination and possible cryptic species in the social amoeba Polysphondylium violaceum." BMC Evol Biol 11: 31.
	BACKGROUND: The genetic diversity of many protists is unknown. The differences that result from this diversity can be important in interactions among individuals. The social amoeba Polysphondylium violaceum, which is a member of the Dictyostelia, has a social stage where individual amoebae aggregate together to form a multicellular fruiting body with dead stalk cells and live spores. Individuals can either cooperate with amoebae from the same clone, or sort to form clonal fruiting bodies. In this study we look at genetic diversity in P. violaceum and at how this diversity impacts social behavior. RESULTS: The phylogeny of the ribosomal DNA sequence (17S to 5.8S region) shows that P. violaceum is made up of at least two groups. Mating compatibility is more common between clones from the same phylogenetic group, though matings between clones from different phylogenetic groups sometimes occurred. P. violaceum clones are more likely to form clonal fruiting bodies when they are mixed with clones from a different group than when they are mixed with a clone of the same group. CONCLUSION: Both the phylogenetic and mating analyses suggest the possibility of cryptic species in P. violaceum. The level of divergence found within P. violaceum is comparable to the divergence between sibling species in other dictyostelids. Both major groups A/B and C/D/E/F show kin discrimination, which elevates relatedness within fruiting bodies but not to the level of clonality. The diminished cooperation in mixes between groups suggests that the level of genetic variation between individuals influences the extent of their cooperation.

Jin, T. (2011). "GPCR-controlled chemotaxis in Dictyostelium discoideum." Wiley Interdiscip Rev Syst Biol Med 3(6): 717-727.
	Dictyostelium discoideum has been chosen as the key model organism for the study of eukaryotic chemotaxis. Studies in this lower eukaryotic organism have allowed us to discover eukaryotic chemotaxis behavior and to gradually understand the mechanism of chemotaxis. Investigations in this simple organism often guide the direction of chemotaxis studies in areas such as forming concepts, discovering molecular components, revealing pathways and networks. The cooperation between experimental approaches and computational modeling has helped us to comprehend the signaling network as a system. To further reveal the relationships among the molecular mechanisms of individual signaling steps, a continuous interplay between model development and refinement and experimental testing and verification will be useful. This article focuses on a chemoattractant G-protein-coupled receptor (GPCR)/G-protein gradient sensing machinery, which is monitored by PIP(3) responses and investigated by the interplay between live cell imaging experiments and computational modeling. We believe that such an approach will lead to a much better understanding of GPCR-controlled chemotaxis of all eukaryotic cells.

Jang, W. and R. H. Gomer (2011). "Initial cell type choice in Dictyostelium." Eukaryot Cell 10(2): 150-155.
	Much remains to be understood about how a group of cells break symmetry and differentiate into distinct cell types. The simple eukaryote Dictyostelium discoideum is an excellent model system for studying questions such as cell type differentiation. Dictyostelium cells grow as single cells. When the cells starve, they aggregate to develop into a multicellular structure with only two main cell types: spore and stalk. There has been a longstanding controversy as to how a cell makes the initial choice of becoming a spore or stalk cell. In this review, we describe how the controversy arose and how a consensus developed around a model in which initial cell type choice in Dictyostelium is dependent on the cell cycle phase that a cell happens to be in at the time that it starves.

Huber, R. J. and D. H. O'Day (2011). "Nucleocytoplasmic transfer of cyclin dependent kinase 5 and its binding to puromycin-sensitive aminopeptidase in Dictyostelium discoideum." Histochem Cell Biol 136(2): 177-189.
	The Dictyostelium discoideum homolog of mammalian cyclin dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5) has previously been shown to be required for optimal growth and differentiation in this model organism, however, the subcellular localization of the protein has not previously been studied. In this study, immunolocalizations and a GFP fusion construct localized Cdk5 predominantly to the nucleus of vegetative cells. Western blots showed that Cdk5 was present in both nuclear and non-nuclear fractions, suggesting a functional role in both cellular locales. During the early stages of mitosis, Cdk5 gradually moved from a punctate nucleoplasmic distribution to localize adjacent to the inner nuclear envelope. During anaphase and telophase, Cdk5 localized to the cytoplasm and was not detected in the nucleoplasm. Cdk5 returned to the nucleus during cytokinesis. Proteolytic activity has been shown to be a critical regulator of the cell cycle. Immunoprecipitations coupled with immunolocalizations identified puromycin-sensitive aminopeptidase A (PsaA) as a potential Cdk5 binding partner in Dictyostelium. Immunoprecipitations also identified two phosphotyrosine proteins (35 and 18 kDa) that may interact with Cdk5 in vivo. Together, this work provides new insight into the localization of Cdk5, its function during cell division, and its binding to a proteolytic enzyme in Dictyostelium.

Huber, R. and D. H. O'Day (2011). "EGF-like peptide-enhanced cell motility in Dictyostelium functions independently of the cAMP-mediated pathway and requires active Ca2+/calmodulin signaling." Cell Signal 23(4): 731-738.
	Current knowledge suggests that cell movement in the eukaryotic slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum is mediated by different signaling pathways involving a number of redundant components. Our previous research has identified a specific motility-enhancing function for epidermal growth factor-like (EGFL) repeats in Dictyostelium, specifically for the EGFL repeats of cyrA, a matricellular, calmodulin (CaM)-binding protein in Dictyostelium. Using mutants of cAMP signaling (carA(-), carC(-), gpaB(-), gpbA(-)), the endogenous calcium (Ca(2+)) release inhibitor TMB-8, the CaM antagonist W-7, and a radial motility bioassay, we show that DdEGFL1, a synthetic peptide whose sequence is obtained from the first EGFL repeat of cyrA, functions independently of the cAMP-mediated signaling pathways to enhance cell motility through a mechanism involving Ca(2+) signaling, CaM, and RasG. We show that DdEGFL1 increases the amounts of polymeric myosin II heavy chain and actin in the cytoskeleton by 24.1+/-10.7% and 25.9+/-2.1% respectively and demonstrate a link between Ca(2+)/CaM signaling and cytoskeletal dynamics. Finally, our findings suggest that carA and carC mediate a brake mechanism during chemotaxis since DdEGFL1 enhanced the movement of carA(-)/carC(-) cells by 844+/-136% compared to only 106+/-6% for parental DH1 cells. Based on our data, this signaling pathway also appears to involve the G-protein beta subunit, RasC, RasGEFA, and protein kinase B. Together, our research provides insight into the functionality of EGFL repeats in Dictyostelium and the signaling pathways regulating cell movement in this model organism. It also identifies several mechanistic components of DdEGFL1-enhanced cell movement, which may ultimately provide a model system for understanding EGFL repeat function in higher organisms.

Huang, E., et al. (2011). "BzpF is a CREB-like transcription factor that regulates spore maturation and stability in Dictyostelium." Dev Biol 358(1): 137-146.
	The cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) is a highly conserved transcription factor that integrates signaling through the cAMP-dependent protein kinase A (PKA) in many eukaryotes. PKA plays a critical role in Dictyostelium development but no CREB homologue has been identified in this system. Here we show that Dictyostelium utilizes a CREB-like protein, BzpF, to integrate PKA signaling during late development. bzpF(-) mutants produce compromised spores, which are extremely unstable and germination defective. Previously, we have found that BzpF binds the canonical CRE motif in vitro. In this paper, we determined the DNA binding specificity of BzpF using protein binding microarray (PBM) and showed that the motif with the highest specificity is a CRE-like sequence. BzpF is necessary to activate the transcription of at least 15 PKA-regulated, late-developmental target genes whose promoters contain BzpF binding motifs. BzpF is sufficient to activate two of these genes. The comparison of RNA sequencing data between wild type and bzpF(-) mutant revealed that the mutant fails to express 205 genes, many of which encode cellulose-binding and sugar-binding proteins. We propose that BzpF is a CREB-like transcription factor that regulates spore maturation and stability in a PKA-related manner.

Hsu, D. W., et al. (2011). "DNA double-strand break repair pathway choice in Dictyostelium." J Cell Sci 124(Pt 10): 1655-1663.
	DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs) can be repaired by homologous recombination (HR) or non-homologous end joining (NHEJ). The mechanisms that govern whether a DSB is repaired by NHEJ or HR remain unclear. Here, we characterise DSB repair in the amoeba Dictyostelium. HR is the principal pathway responsible for resistance to DSBs during vegetative cell growth, a stage of the life cycle when cells are predominantly in G2. However, we illustrate that restriction-enzyme-mediated integration of DNA into the Dictyostelium genome is possible during this stage of the life cycle and that this is mediated by an active NHEJ pathway. We illustrate that Dclre1, a protein with similarity to the vertebrate NHEJ factor Artemis, is required for NHEJ independently of DNA termini complexity. Although vegetative dclre1(-) cells are not radiosensitive, they exhibit delayed DSB repair, further supporting a role for NHEJ during this stage of the life cycle. By contrast, cells lacking the Ku80 component of the Ku heterodimer that binds DNA ends to facilitate NHEJ exhibit no such defect and deletion of ku80 suppresses the DSB repair defect of dclre1(-) cells through increasing HR efficiency. These data illustrate a functional NHEJ pathway in vegetative Dictyostelium and the importance of Ku in regulating DSB repair choice during this phase of the life cycle.

Hofer, B., et al. (2011). "Artefact reduction for cell migration visualization using spectral domain optical coherence tomography." J Biophotonics 4(5): 355-367.
	Visualization of cell migration during chemotaxis using spectral domain optical coherence tomography (OCT) requires non-standard processing techniques. Stripe artefacts and camera noise floor present in OCT data prevent detailed computer-assisted reconstruction and quantification of cell locomotion. Furthermore, imaging artefacts lead to unreliable results in automated texture based cell analysis. Here we characterize three pronounced artefacts that become visible when imaging sample structures with high dynamic range, e.g. cultured cells: (i) time-varying fixed-pattern noise; (ii) stripe artefacts generated by background estimation using tomogram averaging; (iii) image modulations due to spectral shaping. We evaluate techniques to minimize the above mentioned artefacts using an 800 nm optical coherence microscope. Effect of artefact reduction is shown exemplarily on two cell cultures, i.e. Dictyostelium on nitrocellulose substrate, and retinal ganglion cells (RGC-5) cultured on a glass coverslip. Retinal imaging also profits from the proposed processing techniques.

Hofer, B., et al. (2011). "Artefact reduction for cell migration visualization using spectral domain optical coherence tomography." J Biophotonics.
	Visualization of cell migration during chemotaxis using spectral domain optical coherence tomography (OCT) requires non-standard processing techniques. Stripe artefacts and camera noise floor present in OCT data prevent detailed computer-assisted reconstruction and quantification of cell locomotion. Furthermore, imaging artefacts lead to unreliable results in automated texture based cell analysis.Here we characterize three pronounced artefacts that become visible when imaging sample structures with high dynamic range, e.g. cultured cells: (i) time-varying fixed-pattern noise; (ii) stripe artefacts generated by background estimation using tomogram averaging; (iii) image modulations due to spectral shaping. We evaluate techniques to minimize the above mentioned artefacts using an 800 nm optical coherence microscope. Effect of artefact reduction is shown exemplarily on two cell cultures, i.e. Dictyostelium on nitrocellulose substrate, and retinal ganglion cells (RGC-5) cultured on a glass coverslip. Retinal imaging also profits from the proposed processing techniques. ((c) 2011 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH &amp; Co. KGaA, Weinheim).

Hirose, S., et al. (2011). "Self-recognition in social amoebae is mediated by allelic pairs of tiger genes." Science 333(6041): 467-470.
	Free-living cells of the social amoebae Dictyostelium discoideum can aggregate and develop into multicellular fruiting bodies in which many die altruistically as they become stalk cells that support the surviving spores. Dictyostelium cells exhibit kin discrimination--a potential defense against cheaters, which sporulate without contributing to the stalk. Kin discrimination depends on strain relatedness, and the polymorphic genes tgrB1 and tgrC1 are potential components of that mechanism. Here, we demonstrate a direct role for these genes in kin discrimination. We show that a matching pair of tgrB1 and tgrC1 alleles is necessary and sufficient for attractive self-recognition, which is mediated by differential cell-cell adhesion. We propose that TgrB1 and TgrC1 proteins mediate this adhesion through direct binding. This system is a genetically tractable ancient model of eukaryotic self-recognition.

Hilbi, H., et al. (2011). "Anchors for effectors: subversion of phosphoinositide lipids by legionella." Front Microbiol 2: 91.
	The facultative intracellular pathogen Legionella pneumophila replicates in free-living amoebae and macrophages within a distinct compartment, the "Legionella-containing vacuole" (LCV). LCV formation involves phosphoinositide (PI) glycerolipids, which are key factors controlling vesicle trafficking pathways and membrane dynamics of eukaryotic cells. To govern the interactions with host cells, L. pneumophila employs the Icm/Dot type IV secretion system and more than 250 translocated "effector proteins" that presumably subvert host signaling and vesicle trafficking pathways. Some of the effector proteins anchor through distinct PIs to the cytosolic face of LCVs and promote the interaction with host vesicles and organelles, catalyze guanine nucleotide exchange of small GTPases, or bind to PI-metabolizing enzymes, such as OCRL1. The PI 5-phosphatase OCRL1 and its Dictyostelium homologue Dd5P4 restrict intracellular growth of L. pneumophila. Moreover, OCRL1/Dd5P4, PI 3-kinases (PI3Ks), and PI4KIIIbeta regulate LCV formation and localization of the effector protein SidC, which selectively decorates the LCV membrane. SidC and its 20-kDa "P4C" fragment are robust and specific probes for phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate, and SidC can be targeted to purify intact LCVs by immuno-magnetic separation. Taken together, bacterial PI-binding effectors as well as host PIs and PI-modulating enzymes play a pivotal role for intracellular replication of L. pneumophila, and the PI-binding effectors are valuable tools for the analysis of eukaryotic PI lipids.

Heidel, A. J., et al. (2011). "Phylogeny-wide analysis of social amoeba genomes highlights ancient origins for complex intercellular communication." Genome Res 21(11): 1882-1891.
	Dictyostelium discoideum (DD), an extensively studied model organism for cell and developmental biology, belongs to the most derived group 4 of social amoebas, a clade of altruistic multicellular organisms. To understand genome evolution over long time periods and the genetic basis of social evolution, we sequenced the genomes of Dictyostelium fasciculatum (DF) and Polysphondylium pallidum (PP), which represent the early diverging groups 1 and 2, respectively. In contrast to DD, PP and DF have conventional telomere organization and strongly reduced numbers of transposable elements. The number of protein-coding genes is similar between species, but only half of them comprise an identifiable set of orthologous genes. In general, genes involved in primary metabolism, cytoskeletal functions and signal transduction are conserved, while genes involved in secondary metabolism, export, and signal perception underwent large differential gene family expansions. This most likely signifies involvement of the conserved set in core cell and developmental mechanisms, and of the diverged set in niche- and species-specific adaptations for defense and food, mate, and kin selection. Phylogenetic dating using a concatenated data set and extensive loss of synteny indicate that DF, PP, and DD split from their last common ancestor at least 0.6 billion years ago.

Hecht, I., et al. (2011). "Activated membrane patches guide chemotactic cell motility." PLoS Comput Biol 7(6): e1002044.
	Many eukaryotic cells are able to crawl on surfaces and guide their motility based on environmental cues. These cues are interpreted by signaling systems which couple to cell mechanics; indeed membrane protrusions in crawling cells are often accompanied by activated membrane patches, which are localized areas of increased concentration of one or more signaling components. To determine how these patches are related to cell motion, we examine the spatial localization of RasGTP in chemotaxing Dictyostelium discoideum cells under conditions where the vertical extent of the cell was restricted. Quantitative analyses of the data reveal a high degree of spatial correlation between patches of activated Ras and membrane protrusions. Based on these findings, we formulate a model for amoeboid cell motion that consists of two coupled modules. The first module utilizes a recently developed two-component reaction diffusion model that generates transient and localized areas of elevated concentration of one of the components along the membrane. The activated patches determine the location of membrane protrusions (and overall cell motion) that are computed in the second module, which also takes into account the cortical tension and the availability of protrusion resources. We show that our model is able to produce realistic amoeboid-like motion and that our numerical results are consistent with experimentally observed pseudopod dynamics. Specifically, we show that the commonly observed splitting of pseudopods can result directly from the dynamics of the signaling patches.

Hasselbring, B. M., et al. (2011). "Dictyostelium discoideum as a model system for identification of Burkholderia pseudomallei virulence factors." Infect Immun 79(5): 2079-2088.
	Burkholderia pseudomallei is an emerging bacterial pathogen and category B biothreat. Human infections with B. pseudomallei (called melioidosis) present as a range of manifestations, including acute septicemia and pneumonia. Although melioidosis can be fatal, little is known about the molecular basis of B. pseudomallei pathogenicity, in part because of the lack of simple, genetically tractable eukaryotic models to facilitate en masse identification of virulence determinants or explore host-pathogen interactions. Two assays, one high-throughput and one quantitative, were developed to monitor levels of resistance of B. pseudomallei and the closely related nearly avirulent species Burkholderia thailandensis to predation by the phagocytic amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum. The quantitative assay showed that levels of resistance to, and survival within, amoeba by these bacteria and their known virulence mutants correlate well with their published levels of virulence in animals. Using the high-throughput assay, we screened a 1,500-member B. thailandensis transposon mutant library and identified 13 genes involved in resistance to predation by D. discoideum. Orthologs of these genes were disrupted in B. pseudomallei, and nearly all mutants had similarly decreased resistance to predation by D. discoideum. For some mutants, decreased resistance also correlated with reduced survival in and cytotoxicity toward macrophages, as well as attenuated virulence in mice. These observations suggest that some factors required by B. pseudomallei for resistance to environmental phagocytes also aid in resistance to phagocytic immune cells and contribute to disease in animals. Thus, D. discoideum provides a novel, high-throughput model system for facilitating inquiry into B. pseudomallei virulence.

Harwood, A. J. (2011). "Prolyl oligopeptidase, inositol phosphate signalling and lithium sensitivity." CNS Neurol Disord Drug Targets 10(3): 333-339.
	Inhibition of prolyl oligopeptidase (PO) elevates inositol phosphate (IP) signalling and reduces cell sensitivity to lithium (Li+). This review discusses recent evidence that shows PO acts via the multiple inositol polyphosphate phosphatase (MIPP) to regulate gene expression. As a consequence, PO inhibition causes both a transient, rapid increase in I(1,4,5)P(3) and a long-term elevation of IP signalling. This pathway is evolutionary conserved, being present in both the social amoeba Dictyostelium and human cell systems, and has potential implications for mental health.

Hadwiger, J. A. and H. N. Nguyen (2011). "MAPKs in development: insights from Dictyostelium signaling pathways." Biomol Concepts 2(1-2): 39-46.
	Mitogen activated protein kinases (MAPKs) play important roles in the development of eukaryotic organisms through the regulation of signal transduction pathways stimulated by external signals. MAPK signaling pathways have been associated with the regulation of cell growth, differentiation, and chemotaxis, indicating MAPKs contribute to a diverse set of developmental processes. In most eukaryotes, the diversity of external signals is likely to far exceed the diversity of MAPKs, suggesting that multiple signaling pathways might share MAPKs. Do different signaling pathways converge before MAPK function or can MAPKs maintain signaling specificity through interactions with specific proteins? The genetic and biochemical analysis of MAPK pathways in simple eukaryotes such as Dictyostelium offers opportunities to investigate functional specificity of MAPKs in G protein-mediated signal transduction pathways. This review considers the regulation and specificity of MAPK function in pathways that control Dictyostelium growth and development.

Greene, D. M., et al. (2011). "Targets downstream of Cdk8 in Dictyostelium development." BMC Dev Biol 11: 2.
	BACKGROUND: Cdk8 is a component of the mediator complex which facilitates transcription by RNA polymerase II and has been shown to play an important role in development of Dictyostelium discoideum. This eukaryote feeds as single cells but starvation triggers the formation of a multicellular organism in response to extracellular pulses of cAMP and the eventual generation of spores. Strains in which the gene encoding Cdk8 have been disrupted fail to form multicellular aggregates unless supplied with exogenous pulses of cAMP and later in development, cdk8- cells show a defect in spore production. RESULTS: Microarray analysis revealed that the cdk8- strain previously described (cdk8-HL) contained genome duplications. Regeneration of the strain in a background lacking detectable gene duplication generated strains (cdk8-2) with identical defects in growth and early development, but a milder defect in spore generation, suggesting that the severity of this defect depends on the genetic background. The failure of cdk8- cells to aggregate unless rescued by exogenous pulses of cAMP is consistent with a failure to express the catalytic subunit of protein kinase A. However, overexpression of the gene encoding this protein was not sufficient to rescue the defect, suggesting that this is not the only important target for Cdk8 at this stage of development. Proteomic analysis revealed two potential targets for Cdk8 regulation, one regulated post-transcriptionally (4-hydroxyphenylpyruvate dioxygenase (HPD)) and one transcriptionally (short chain dehydrogenase/reductase (SDR1)). CONCLUSIONS: This analysis has confirmed the importance of Cdk8 at multiple stages of Dictyostelium development, although the severity of the defect in spore production depends on the genetic background. Potential targets of Cdk8-mediated gene regulation have been identified in Dictyostelium which will allow the mechanism of Cdk8 action and its role in development to be determined.

Gomer, R. H., et al. (2011). "Cell density sensing and size determination." Dev Growth Differ 53(4): 482-494.
	The social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum is one of the leading model systems used to study how cells count themselves to determine the number and/or density of cells. In this review, we describe work on three different cell-density sensing systems used by Dictyostelium. The first involves a negative feedback loop in which two secreted signals inhibit cell proliferation during the growth phase. As the cell density increases, the concentrations of the secreted factors concomitantly increase, allowing the cells to sense their density. The two signals act as message authenticators for each other, and the existence of two different signals that require each other for activity may explain why previous efforts to identify autocrine proliferation-inhibiting signals in higher eukaryotes have generally failed. The second system involves a signal made by growing cells that is secreted only when they starve. This then allows cells to sense the density of just the starving cells, and is an example of a mechanism that allows cells in a tissue to sense the density of one specific cell type. The third cell density counting system involves cells in aggregation streams secreting a signal that limits the size of fruiting bodies. Computer simulations predicted, and experiments then showed, that the factor increases random cell motility and decreases cell-cell adhesion to cause streams to break up if there are too many cells in the stream. Together, studies on Dictyostelium cell density counting systems will help elucidate how higher eukaryotes regulate the size and composition of tissues.

Gole, L., et al. (2011). "A quorum-sensing factor in vegetative Dictyostelium discoideum cells revealed by quantitative migration analysis." PLoS One 6(11): e26901.
	BACKGROUND: Many cells communicate through the production of diffusible signaling molecules that accumulate and once a critical concentration has been reached, can activate or repress a number of target genes in a process termed quorum sensing (QS). In the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum, QS plays an important role during development. However little is known about its effect on cell migration especially in the growth phase. METHODS AND FINDINGS: To investigate the role of cell density on cell migration in the growth phase, we use multisite timelapse microscopy and automated cell tracking. This analysis reveals a high heterogeneity within a given cell population, and the necessity to use large data sets to draw reliable conclusions on cell motion. In average, motion is persistent for short periods of time (t &lt;/= 5 min), but normal diffusive behavior is recovered over longer time periods. The persistence times are positively correlated with the migrated distances. Interestingly, the migrated distance decreases as well with cell density. The adaptation of cell migration to cell density highlights the role of a secreted quorum sensing factor (QSF) on cell migration. Using a simple model describing the balance between the rate of QSF generation and the rate of QSF dilution, we were able to gather all experimental results into a single master curve, showing a sharp cell transition between high and low motile behaviors with increasing QSF. CONCLUSION: This study unambiguously demonstrates the central role played by QSF on amoeboid motion in the growth phase.

Gerisch, G., et al. (2011). "Different modes of state transitions determine pattern in the Phosphatidylinositide-Actin system." BMC Cell Biol 12: 42.
	BACKGROUND: In a motile polarized cell the actin system is differentiated to allow protrusion at the front and retraction at the tail. This differentiation is linked to the phosphoinositide pattern in the plasma membrane. In the highly motile Dictyostelium cells studied here, the front is dominated by PI3-kinases producing PI(3,4,5)tris-phosphate (PIP3), the tail by the PI3-phosphatase PTEN that hydrolyses PIP3 to PI(4,5)bis-phosphate. To study de-novo cell polarization, we first depolymerized actin and subsequently recorded the spontaneous reorganization of actin patterns in relation to PTEN. RESULTS: In a transient stage of recovery from depolymerization, symmetric actin patterns alternate periodically with asymmetric ones. The switches to asymmetry coincide with the unilateral membrane-binding of PTEN. The modes of state transitions in the actin and PTEN systems differ. Transitions in the actin system propagate as waves that are initiated at single sites by the amplification of spontaneous fluctuations. In PTEN-null cells, these waves still propagate with normal speed but loose their regular periodicity. Membrane-binding of PTEN is induced at the border of a coherent PTEN-rich area in the form of expanding and regressing gradients. CONCLUSIONS: The state transitions in actin organization and the reversible transition from cytoplasmic to membrane-bound PTEN are synchronized but their patterns differ. The transitions in actin organization are independent of PTEN, but when PTEN is present, they are coupled to periodic changes in the membrane-binding of this PIP3-degrading phosphatase. The PTEN oscillations are related to motility patterns of chemotaxing cells.

Gaudet, P., et al. (2011). "dictyBase update 2011: web 2.0 functionality and the initial steps towards a genome portal for the Amoebozoa." Nucleic Acids Res 39(Database issue): D620-624.
	dictyBase (http://www.dictybase.org), the model organism database for Dictyostelium, aims to provide the broad biomedical research community with well integrated, high quality data and tools for Dictyostelium discoideum and related species. dictyBase houses the complete genome sequence, ESTs, and the entire body of literature relevant to Dictyostelium. This information is curated to provide accurate gene models and functional annotations, with the goal of fully annotating the genome to provide a 'reference genome' in the Amoebozoa clade. We highlight several new features in the present update: (i) new annotations; (ii) improved interface with web 2.0 functionality; (iii) the initial steps towards a genome portal for the Amoebozoa; (iv) ortholog display; and (v) the complete integration of the Dicty Stock Center with dictyBase.

Gao, R. C., et al. (2011). "Different roles of membrane potentials in electrotaxis and chemotaxis of dictyostelium cells." Eukaryot Cell 10(9): 1251-1256.
	Many types of cells migrate directionally in direct current (DC) electric fields (EFs), a phenomenon termed galvanotaxis or electrotaxis. The directional sensing mechanisms responsible for this response to EFs, however, remain unknown. Exposing cells to an EF causes changes in plasma membrane potentials (V(m)). Exploiting the ability of Dictyostelium cells to tolerate drastic V(m) changes, we investigated the role of V(m) in electrotaxis and, in parallel, in chemotaxis. We used three independent factors to control V(m): extracellular pH, extracellular [K(+)], and electroporation. Changes in V(m) were monitored with microelectrode recording techniques. Depolarized V(m) was observed under acidic (pH 5.0) and alkaline (pH 9.0) conditions as well as under higher extracellular [K(+)] conditions. Electroporation permeabilized the cell membrane and significantly reduced the V(m), which gradually recovered over 40 min. We then recorded the electrotactic behaviors of Dictyostelium cells with a defined V(m) using these three techniques. The directionality (directedness of electrotaxis) was quantified and compared to that of chemotaxis (chemotactic index). We found that a reduced V(m) significantly impaired electrotaxis without significantly affecting random motility or chemotaxis. We conclude that extracellular pH, [K(+)], and electroporation all significantly affected electrotaxis, which appeared to be mediated by the changes in V(m). The initial directional sensing mechanisms for electrotaxis therefore differ from those of chemotaxis and may be mediated by changes in resting V(m).

Fumanelli, L., et al. (2011). "Mathematical modeling of bacterial virulence and host-pathogen interactions in the Dictyostelium/Pseudomonas system." J Theor Biol 270(1): 19-24.
	We present some studies on the mechanisms of pathogenesis based on experimental work and on its interpretation through a mathematical model. Using a collection of clinical strains of the opportunistic human pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa, we performed co-culture experiments with Dictyostelium amoebae, to investigate the two organisms' interaction, characterized by a cross action between amoeba, feeding on bacteria, and bacteria exerting their pathogenic action against amoeba. In order to classify bacteria virulence, independently of this cross interaction, we have also performed killing experiments of bacteria against the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. A mathematical model was developed to infer how the populations of the amoeba-bacteria system evolve according to a number of parameters, taking into account the specific features underlying the interaction. The model does not fall within the class of traditional prey-predator models because not only does an amoeba feed on bacteria, but also it is in turn attacked by them; thus the model must include a feedback term modeling this further interaction aspect. The model shows the existence of multiple steady states and the resulting behavior of the solutions, showing bi-stability of the system, gives a qualitative explanation of the co-culture experiments.

Fukuzawa, M. (2011). "Control of prestalk-cell differentiation by transcription factors." Dev Growth Differ 53(4): 538-547.
	Transcriptional control of developmental genes is important for cell differentiation and pattern formation. Developing Dictyostelium discoideum cells form a multicellular structure in which individual cells differentiate into either stalk cells or spores. This simplicity makes the organism an attractive model for studying fundamental problems in developmental biology. However, the morphogenetic process of forming a stalked fruiting body conceals a certain degree of complexity. This is reflected in the presence of multiple prestalk subtypes that have individual roles to generate the fruiting body. This review describes recent advances in understanding the molecular mechanisms, mediated by transcription factors that generate prestalk-cell heterogeneity.

Friedrich, M., et al. (2011). "Detection of Single Quantum Dots in Model Systems with Sheet Illumination Microscopy." J Fluoresc.
	Single molecule detection and tracking provides at times the only possible method to observe the interactions of low numbers of biomolecules, inlcuding DNA, receptors and signal mediating proteins in living systems. However, most existing imaging methods do not enable both high sensitivity and non-invasive imaging of large specimens. In this study we report a new setup for selective plane illumination microscopy (SPIM), which enables fast imaging and single molecule tracking with the resolution of confocal microscopy and the optical penetration beyond 300 mum. We detect and report our instrumental figures of merit, control values of fluorescence properties of single nano crystals in comparison to both standard widefield configurations, and also values of nanocrystals in multicellular "fruiting bodies" of Dictyostelium, an excellent control as a model developmental system. In the Dictyostelium , we also report some of our first tracking of single nanocrystals with SPIM. The new SPIM setup represents a new technique, which enables fast single molecule imaging and tracking in living systems.

Friedberg, F. (2011). "Single and multiple CH (calponin homology) domain containing multidomain proteins in Arabidopsis and Saccharomyces: an inventory." Mol Biol Rep 38(1): 213-218.
	Genes for individual domains such as CH, lim, ankyrin, PH and RhoGAP, IQ motif, Ig_FLMN, spectrin, and EF hand probably existed in early evolution before there were plants, fungi or animals so that when we examine multidomain proteins in Arabidopsis, Saccharomyces, Dictyostelium or Homo Sapiens we encounter various combinations of such domains. While all of these four species express Fimbrin and EB1, the lists of CH containing multidomain proteins, however, differ in number and in type for each of them. There was no further great increase in the number of new single domain proteins. Still many new multidomain genes evolved--but far more so in metazoans--than in plants or fungi. In both plants and fungi only singlet CH domains but no doublets (other than those forming the Fimbrin quadruplet) were incorporated. That is in these two branches one finds no alpha actinin, dystrophin or filamin even though the individual building blocks (i.e. domains such as spectrin or IG-FLMN) were available in Arabidopsis. Possibly transposons create new chimeric multidomain genes by mixing and matching genes or gene fragments.

Francione, L. M. and P. R. Fisher (2011). "Heteroplasmic mitochondrial disease in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem Pharmacol 82(10): 1510-1520.
	The bewildering complexity of the relationship between genotype and phenotype in human mitochondrial diseases has delayed an understanding of the related cytopathological mechanisms. To explore the relationship between mitochondrial dysfunction in Dictyostelium discoideum and the related cytopathologies, we determined whether the phenotypic outcomes were similar regardless of which D. discoideum mitochondrial gene was targeted for disruption. The disruption of the mitochondrial genes resulted in a similar pattern of phenotypes to those caused by other mitochondrial defects. These include impairment of phototaxis, multicellular development and growth on plates and in liquid medium. As the reduced growth rates could have been due to defective phagocytic or macropinocytic nutrient uptake, these processes were tested but found to be unaffected. Since mitochondria have been associated with Legionella pathogenesis of human macrophages, it was also determined if mitochondrially diseased Dictyostelium strains were better or worse than healthy cells at supporting the growth of Legionella pneumophila. The results revealed that the mitochondrially diseased strains supported greater L. pneumophila growth than the wild type Dictyostelium strain (AX2). Quantitative Northern blotting showed a significant reduction in the level of expression of the entire mitochondrial genome, regardless of which mitochondrial gene was targeted for disruption, suggesting a generalized deficiency in mitochondrial gene expression and function. The phenotypic outcomes were the same as those shown previously to result from chronic hyperactivity of the energy-sensing protein kinase, AMPK, after knockdown of mitochondrial chaperonin 60.

Francione, L. M., et al. (2011). "The Dictyostelium model for mitochondrial disease." Semin Cell Dev Biol 22(1): 120-130.
	Mitochondrial diseases are a diverse family of genetic disorders caused by mutations affecting mitochondrial proteins encoded in either the nuclear or the mitochondrial genome. By impairing mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation, they compromise cellular energy production and the downstream consequences in humans are a bewilderingly complex array of signs and symptoms that can affect any of the major organ systems in unpredictable combinations. This complexity and unpredictability has limited our understanding of the cytopathological consequences of mitochondrial dysfunction. By contrast, in Dictyostelium the mitochondrial disease phenotypes are consistent, measurable "readouts" of dysregulated intracellular signalling pathways. When the underlying genetic defects would produce coordinate, generalized deficiencies in multiple mitochondrial respiratory complexes, the disease phenotypes are mediated by chronic activation of an energy-sensing protein kinase, AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK). This chronic AMPK hyperactivity maintains mitochondrial mass and cellular ATP concentrations at normal levels, but chronically impairs growth, cell cycle progression, multicellular development, photosensory and thermosensory signal transduction. It also causes the cells to support greater proliferation of the intracellular bacterial pathogen, Legionella pneumophila. Notably however, phagocytic and macropinocytic nutrient uptake are impervious both to AMPK signalling and to these types of mitochondrial dysfunction. Surprisingly, a Complex I-specific deficiency (midA knockout) not only causes the foregoing AMPK-mediated defects, but also produces a dramatic deficit in endocytic nutrient uptake accompanied by an additional secondary defect in growth. More restricted and specific phenotypic outcomes are produced by knocking out genes for nuclear-encoded mitochondrial proteins that are not required for respiration. The Dictyostelium model for mitochondrial disease has thus revealed consistent patterns of sublethal dysregulation of intracellular signalling pathways that are produced by different types of underlying mitochondrial dysfunction.

Flegel, K. A., et al. (2011). "Copine A is expressed in prestalk cells and regulates slug phototaxis and thermotaxis in developing Dictyostelium." Dev Growth Differ 53(8): 948-959.
	Copines are calcium-dependent membrane-binding proteins found in many eukaryotic organisms. We are studying the function of copines using the model organism, Dictyostelium discoideum. When under starvation conditions, Dictyostelium cells aggregate into mounds that become migrating slugs, which can move toward light and heat before culminating into a fruiting body. Previously, we showed that Dictyostelium cells lacking the copine A (cpnA) gene are not able to form fruiting bodies and instead arrest at the slug stage. In this study, we compared the slug behavior of cells lacking the cpnA gene to the slug behavior of wild-type cells. The slugs formed by cpnA- cells were much larger than wild-type slugs and exhibited no phototaxis and negative thermotaxis in the same conditions that wild-type slugs exhibited positive phototaxis and thermotaxis. Mixing as little as 5% wild-type cells with cpnA- cells rescued the phototaxis and thermotaxis defects, suggesting that CpnA plays a specific role in the regulation of the production and/or release of a signaling molecule. Reducing extracellular levels of ammonia also partially rescued the phototaxis and thermotaxis defects of cpnA- slugs, suggesting that CpnA may have a specific role in regulating ammonia signaling. Expressing the lacZ gene under the cpnA promoter in wild-type cells indicated cpnA is preferentially expressed in the prestalk cells found in the anterior part of the slug, which include the cells at the tip of the slug that regulate phototaxis, thermotaxis, and the initiation of culmination into fruiting bodies. Our results suggest that CpnA plays a role in the regulation of the signaling pathways, including ammonia signaling, necessary for sensing and/or orienting toward light and heat in the prestalk cells of the Dictyostelium slug.

Escalante, R. (2011). "Dictyostelium as a model for human disease." Semin Cell Dev Biol 22(1): 69.
	
Elphick, L. M., et al. (2011). "Conserved valproic-acid-induced lipid droplet formation in Dictyostelium and human hepatocytes identifies structurally active compounds." Dis Model Mech.
	Lipid droplet formation and subsequent steatosis (the abnormal retention of lipids within a cell) has been reported to contribute to hepatotoxicity and is an adverse effect of many pharmacological agents including the antiepileptic drug valproic acid (VPA). In this study, we have developed a simple model system (Dictyostelium discoideum) to investigate the effects of VPA and related compounds in lipid droplet formation. In mammalian hepatocytes, VPA increases lipid droplet accumulation over a 24-hour period, giving rise to liver cell damage, and we show a similar effect in Dictyostelium following 30 minutes of VPA treatment. Using (3)H-labelled polyunsaturated (arachidonic) or saturated (palmitic) fatty acids, we shown that VPA treatment of Dictyostelium gives rise to an increased accumulation of both types of fatty acids in phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylethanolamine and non-polar lipids in this time period, with a similar trend observed in human hepatocytes (Huh7 cells) labelled with [(3)H]arachidonic acid. In addition, pharmacological inhibition of beta-oxidation in Dictyostelium phenocopies fatty acid accumulation, in agreement with data reported in mammalian systems. Using Dictyostelium, we then screened a range of VPA-related compounds to identify those with high and low lipid-accumulation potential, and validated these activities for effects on lipid droplet formation by using human hepatocytes. Structure-activity relationships for these VPA-related compounds suggest that lipid accumulation is independent of VPA-catalysed teratogenicity and inositol depletion. These results suggest that Dictyostelium could provide both a novel model system for the analysis of lipid droplet formation in human hepatocytes and a rapid method for identifying VPA-related compounds that show liver toxicology.

Dubin, M. J., et al. (2011). "Characterization of the Dictyostelium homolog of chromatin binding protein DET1 suggests a conserved pathway regulating cell type specification and developmental plasticity." Eukaryot Cell 10(3): 352-362.
	DET1 (De-etiolated 1) is a chromatin binding protein involved in developmental regulation in both plants and animals. DET1 is largely restricted to multicellular eukaryotes, and here we report the characterization of a DET1 homolog from the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum. As in other species, Dictyostelium DET1 is nuclear localized. In contrast to other species, where it is an essential protein, loss of DET1 is nonlethal in Dictyostelium, although viability is significantly reduced. The phenotype of the det1(-) mutant is highly pleiotropic and results in a large degree of heterogeneity in developmental parameters. Loss of DET1 results in delayed and abnormal development with enlarged aggregation territories. Mutant slugs displayed cell type patterning with a bias toward the prestalk pathway. A number of DET1-interacting proteins are conserved in Dictyostelium, and the apparently conserved role of DET1 in regulatory pathways involving the bZIP transcription factors DimB, c-Jun, and HY5 suggests a highly conserved mechanism regulating development in multicellular eukaryotes. While the mechanism by which DET1 functions is unclear, it appears that it has a key role in regulation of developmental plasticity and integration of information on environmental conditions into the developmental program of an organism.

Driscoll, M. K., et al. (2011). "Local and global measures of shape dynamics." Phys Biol 8(5): 055001.
	The shape and motion of cells can yield significant insights into the internal operation of a cell. We present a simple, yet versatile, framework that provides multiple metrics of cell shape and cell shape dynamics. Analysis of migrating Dictyostelium discoideum cells shows that global and local metrics highlight distinct cellular processes. For example, a global measure of shape shows rhythmic oscillations suggestive of contractions, whereas a local measure of shape shows wave-like dynamics indicative of protrusions. From a local measure of dynamic shape, or boundary motion, we extract the times and locations of protrusions and retractions. We find that protrusions zigzag, while retractions remain roughly stationary along the boundary. We do not observe any temporal relationship between protrusions and retractions. Our analysis framework also provides metrics of the boundary as whole. For example, as the cell speed increases, we find that the cell shape becomes more elongated. We also observe that while extensions and retractions have similar areas, their shapes differ.

Douglas, T. E., et al. (2011). "Genetic diversity in the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum: population differentiation and cryptic species." Mol Phylogenet Evol 60(3): 455-462.
	The social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum is a commonly used model organism for the study of social evolution, multicellularity, and cell biology. But the boundaries and structure of the species have not been explored. The lack of morphological traits to distinguish D. discoideum makes even knowing whether a given clone is D. discoideum a challenge. We address this with a phylogeny of a widespread collection of clones from a range of locations and including clones identified previously as potential cryptic species. We sequenced portions of nuclear ribosomal DNA and mitochondrial DNA, analyzing approximately 5500 and 2500 base pairs from the two regions respectively. We compared these sequences to known reference sequences for both D. discoideum and other closely related Dictyostelium species to create Bayesian and neighbor-joining phylogenetic trees representing the evolutionary relationships among the clones. We identified 51 unique D. discoideum concatenated sequences based on the combined mitochondrial and ribosomal sequence data. We also identified four unique D. citrinum concatenated sequences, three of which were previously classified as D. discoideum clones. Our analysis of the data revealed that all D. discoideum clones form a monophyletic group, but there are several well-supported subclades and pronounced genetic differentiation among locations (F(ST)=0.242, P=0.011), suggesting the presence of geographic or other barriers between populations. Our results reveal the need for further investigation into potential tropical cryptic species.

Diensthuber, R. P., et al. (2011). "Phalloidin perturbs the interaction of human non-muscle myosin isoforms 2A and 2C1 with F-actin." FEBS Lett 585(5): 767-771.
	Phalloidin and fluorescently labeled phalloidin analogs are established reagents to stabilize and mark actin filaments for the investigation of acto-myosin interactions. In the present study, we employed transient and steady-state kinetic measurements as well as in vitro motility assays to show that phalloidin perturbs the productive interaction of human non-muscle myosin-2A and -2C1 with filamentous actin. Phalloidin binding to F-actin results in faster dissociation of the complex formed with non-muscle myosin-2A and -2C1, reduced actin-activated ATP turnover, and slower velocity of actin filaments in the in vitro motility assay. In contrast, phalloidin binding to F-actin does not affect the interaction with human non-muscle myosin isoform 2B and Dictyostelium myosin-2 and myosin-5b.

Dickinson, D. J., et al. (2011). "A polarized epithelium organized by beta- and alpha-catenin predates cadherin and metazoan origins." Science 331(6022): 1336-1339.
	A fundamental characteristic of metazoans is the formation of a simple, polarized epithelium. In higher animals, the structural integrity and functional polarization of simple epithelia require a cell-cell adhesion complex that contains a classical cadherin, the Wnt-signaling protein beta-catenin and the actin-binding protein alpha-catenin. We show that the non-metazoan Dictyostelium discoideum forms a polarized epithelium that is essential for multicellular development. Although D. discoideum lacks a cadherin homolog, we identify an alpha-catenin ortholog that binds a beta-catenin-related protein. Both proteins are essential for formation of the epithelium, polarized protein secretion, and proper multicellular morphogenesis. Thus, the organizational principles of metazoan multicellularity may be more ancient than previously recognized, and the role of the catenins in cell polarity predates the evolution of Wnt signaling and classical cadherins.

de Keijzer, S., et al. (2011). "Disrupting microtubule network immobilizes amoeboid chemotactic receptor in the plasma membrane." Biochim Biophys Acta 1808(6): 1701-1708.
	Signaling cascades are initiated in the plasma membrane via activation of one molecule by another. The interaction depends on the mutual availability of the molecules to each other and this is determined by their localization and lateral diffusion in the cell membrane. The cytoskeleton plays a very important role in this process by enhancing or restricting the possibility of the signaling partners to meet in the plasma membrane. In this study we explored the mode of diffusion of the cAMP receptor, cAR1, in the plasma membrane of Dictyostelium discoideum cells and how this is regulated by the cytoskeleton. Single-particle tracking of fluorescently labeled cAR1 using Total Internal Reflection Microscopy showed that 70% of the cAR1 molecules were mobile. These receptors showed directed motion and we demonstrate that this is not because of tracking along the actin cytoskeleton. Instead, destabilization of the microtubules abolished cAR1 mobility in the plasma membrane and this was confirmed by Fluorescence Recovery after Photobleaching. As a result of microtubule stabilization, one of the first downstream signaling events, the jump of the PH domain of CRAC, was decreased. These results suggest a role for microtubules in cAR1 dynamics and in the ability of cAR1 molecules to interact with their signaling partners.

Das, S., et al. (2011). "Direct biochemical measurements of signal relay during Dictyostelium development." J Biol Chem 286(44): 38649-38658.
	Upon starvation, individual Dictyostelium discoideum cells enter a developmental program that leads to collective migration and the formation of a multicellular organism. The process is mediated by extracellular cAMP binding to the G protein-coupled cAMP receptor 1, which initiates a signaling cascade leading to the activation of adenylyl cyclase A (ACA), the synthesis and secretion of additional cAMP, and an autocrine and paracrine activation loop. The release of cAMP allows neighboring cells to polarize and migrate directionally and form characteristic chains of cells called streams. We now report that cAMP relay can be measured biochemically by assessing ACA, ERK2, and TORC2 activities at successive time points in development after stimulating cells with subsaturating concentrations of cAMP. We also find that the activation profiles of ACA, ERK2, and TORC2 change in the course of development, with later developed cells showing a loss of sensitivity to the relayed signal. We examined mutants in PKA activity that have been associated with precocious development and find that this loss in responsiveness occurs earlier in these mutants. Remarkably, we show that this loss in sensitivity correlates with a switch in migration patterns as cells transition from streams to aggregates. We propose that as cells proceed through development, the cAMP-induced desensitization and down-regulation of cAMP receptor 1 impacts the sensitivities of chemotactic signaling cascades leading to changes in migration patterns.

Dames, S. A., et al. (2011). "1H, 15N, and 13C assignments of the N-terminal activation domain of Dictyostelium discoideum Formin C." Biomol NMR Assign 5(1): 47-49.
	Dictyostelium discoideum Formin C (ForC) plays an important role in the fruiting body formation during the multicellular stages of the slime mold. Formins are multidomain proteins that are known to regulate the actin cytoskeleton. Here, we report the assignments of the (1)H, (15)N, and (13)C nuclei of the N-terminal activation domain (residues 1-100) of ForC. Chemical shifts have been deposited at the BioMagResBank under the BMRB accession number 17,029. The N-terminal region of the 131 kDa ForC protein is supposed to form a GTPase-binding domain required for activation of the formin.

Dames, S. A., et al. (2011). "Structure, dynamics, lipid binding, and physiological relevance of the putative GTPase-binding domain of Dictyostelium formin C." J Biol Chem 286(42): 36907-36920.
	Dictyostelium Formin C (ForC) is involved in the regulation of local actin cytoskeleton reorganization (e.g. during cellular adhesion or migration). ForC contains formin homology 2 and 3 (FH2 and -3) domains and an N-terminal putative GTPase-binding domain (GBD) but lacks a canonical FH1 region. To better understand the role of the GBD, its structure, dynamics, lipid-binding properties, and cellular functions were analyzed by NMR and CD spectroscopy and by in vivo fluorescence microscopy. Moreover, the program CS-Rosetta was tested for the structure prediction based on chemical shift data only. The ForC GBD adopts an ubiquitin-like alpha/beta-roll fold with an unusually long loop between beta-strands 1 and 2. Based on the lipid-binding data, the presence of DPC micelles induces the formation of alpha-helical secondary structure and a rearrangement of the tertiary structure. Lipid-binding studies with a mutant protein and a peptide suggest that the beta1-beta2 loop is not relevant for these conformational changes. Whereas small amounts of negatively charged phosphoinositides (1,2-dioctanoyl-sn-glycero-3-(phosphoinositol 4,5-bisphosphate) and 1,2-dihexanoyl-sn-glycero-3-(phosphoinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate)) lower the micelle concentration necessary to induce the observed spectral changes, other negatively charged phospholipids (1,2-dihexanoyl-sn-glycero-3-(phospho-L-serine) and 1,2-dihexanoyl-sn-glycero-3-phospho-(1'-rac-glycerol)) had no such effect. Interestingly, bicelles and micelles composed of diacylphosphocholines had no effect on the GBD structure. Our data suggest a model in which part of the large positively charged surface area of the GBD mediates localization to specific membrane patches, thereby regulating interactions with signaling proteins. Our cellular localization studies show that both the GBD and the FH3 domain are required for ForC targeting to cell-cell contacts and early phagocytic cups and macropinosomes.

Dallon, J. C., et al. (2011). "Understanding streaming in Dictyostelium discoideum: theory versus experiments." Bull Math Biol 73(7): 1603-1626.
	Recent experimental work involving Dictyostelium discoideum seems to contradict several theoretical models. Experiments suggest that localization of the release of the chemoattractant cyclic adenosine monophosphate to the uropod of the cell is important for stream formation during aggregation. Yet several mathematical models are able to reproduce streaming as the cells aggregate without taking into account localization of the chemoattractant. A careful analysis of the experiments and the theory suggests the two major features of the system which are important to stream formation are random cell motion and chemotaxis to regions of higher cell density. Random cell motion acts to reduce streaming, whereas chemotaxis to regions of higher cell density reinforces streaming. With this understanding, the experimental results can be explained in a manner consistent with the theoretical results. In all the experiments, alterations in the two main factors of random motion and chemotaxis to regions of higher cell density, not the localization of the release of the chemoattractant, can explain the results as they relate to streaming. Additionally, a comparison of results from a mathematical model that simulates cells which localize the chemoattractant and cells which do not shows little difference in the streaming patterns.

Daher, R. K., et al. (2011). "Alteration of virulence factors and rearrangement of pAsa5 plasmid caused by the growth of Aeromonas salmonicida in stressful conditions." Vet Microbiol 152(3-4): 353-360.
	Aeromonas salmonicida, a fish pathogen, is the causative agent of furunculosis. It was already shown that growing this bacterium in stressful conditions such as temperature above 22 degrees C might lead to virulence attenuation. Unfortunately, many veterinary microbiology services and reference centers still routinely cultivate A. salmonicida at 25 degrees C. Here we tested the presence of virulence factors by growth on specific medium as well as the integrity of the pAsa5 plasmid, which bears an important virulence factor, the type III secretion system (TTSS), by PCR analysis in twenty strains, most of which were grown at 25 degrees C in their laboratory of origin. The analysis revealed that strains, which encountered the more stressful growth conditions displayed the most frequent absence of A-layer protein and secreted proteolytic activity. Moreover, many strains had lost parts of the pAsa5 plasmid in which the TTSS region was almost always affected. To confirm the effect of stressful growth conditions on the plasmid, three strains with an intact pAsa5 were cultured at 25 degrees C for two weeks. A low but significant fraction of the tested colonies displayed pAsa5 rearrangements. The rearrangement always affected the TTSS region and led to a loss of virulence in the Dictyostelium discoideum co-culture assay. These results demonstrate that the instability of pAsa5 did not lead to its complete loss as previously proposed but to a more complex rearrangement phenomenon and emphasizes the necessity to grow A. salmonicida in appropriate conditions to preserve the complete virulence of the bacterium.

Crawley, S. W., et al. (2011). "Identification of calmodulin and MlcC as light chains for Dictyostelium myosin-I isozymes." Biochemistry 50(30): 6579-6588.
	Dictyostelium discoideum express seven single-headed myosin-I isozymes (MyoA-MyoE and MyoK) that drive motile processes at the cell membrane. The light chains for MyoA and MyoE were identified by expressing Flag-tagged constructs consisting of the motor domain and the two IQ motifs in the neck region in Dictyostelium. The MyoA and MyoE constructs both copurified with calmodulin. Isothermal titration calorimetry (ITC) showed that apo-calmodulin bound to peptides corresponding to the MyoA and MyoE IQ motifs with micromolar affinity. In the presence of calcium, calmodulin cross-linked two IQ motif peptides, with one domain binding with nanomolar affinity and the other with micromolar affinity. The IQ motifs were required for the actin-activated MgATPase activity of MyoA but not MyoE; however, neither myosin exhibited calcium-dependent activity. A Flag-tagged construct consisting of the MyoC motor domain and the three IQ motifs in the adjacent neck region bound a novel 8.6 kDa two EF-hand protein named MlcC, for myosin light chain for MyoC. MlcC is most similar to the C-terminal domain of calmodulin but does not bind calcium. ITC studies showed that MlcC binds IQ1 and IQ2 but not IQ3 of MyoC. IQ3 contains a proline residue that may render it nonfunctional. Each long-tailed Dictyostelium myosin-I has now been shown to have a unique light chain (MyoB-MlcB, MyoC-MlcC, and MyoD-MlcD), whereas the short-tailed myosins-I, MyoA and MyoE, have the multifunctional calmodulin as a light chain. The diversity in light chain composition is likely to contribute to the distinct cellular functions of each myosin-I isozyme.

Crawley, S. W., et al. (2011). "Autophosphorylation activates Dictyostelium myosin II heavy chain kinase A by providing a ligand for an allosteric binding site in the alpha-kinase domain." J Biol Chem 286(4): 2607-2616.
	Dictyostelium discoideum myosin II heavy chain kinase A (MHCK A), a member of the atypical alpha-kinase family, phosphorylates sites in the myosin II tail that block filament assembly. Here we show that the catalytic activity of A-CAT, the alpha-kinase domain of MHCK A (residues 552-841), is severely inhibited by the removal of a disordered C-terminal tail sequence (C-tail; residues 806-841). The key residue in the C-tail was identified as Thr(825), which was found to be constitutively autophosphorylated. Dephosphorylation of Thr(825) using shrimp alkaline phosphatase decreased A-CAT activity. The activity of a truncated A-CAT lacking Thr(825) could be rescued by P(i), phosphothreonine, and a phosphorylated peptide, but not by threonine, glutamic acid, aspartic acid, or an unphosphorylated peptide. These results focused attention on a P(i)-binding pocket located in the C-terminal lobe of A-CAT. Mutational analysis demonstrated that the P(i)-pocket was essential for A-CAT activity. Based on these results, it is proposed that autophosphorylation of Thr(825) activates ACAT by providing a covalently tethered ligand for the P(i)-pocket. Ab initio modeling studies using the Rosetta FloppyTail and FlexPepDock protocols showed that it is feasible for the phosphorylated Thr(825) to dock intramolecularly into the P(i)-pocket. Allosteric activation is predicted to involve a conformational change in Arg(734), which bridges the bound P(i) to Asp(762) in a key active site loop. Sequence alignments indicate that a comparable regulatory mechanism is likely to be conserved in Dictyostelium MHCK B-D and metazoan eukaryotic elongation factor-2 kinases.

Cox, A. D., et al. (2011). "Investigating the potential of conserved inner core oligosaccharide regions of Moraxella catarrhalis lipopolysaccharide as vaccine antigens: accessibility and functional activity of monoclonal antibodies and glycoconjugate derived sera." Glycoconj J 28(3-4): 165-182.
	We investigated the conservation and antibody accessibility of inner core epitopes of Moraxella catarrhalis lipopolysaccharide (LPS) in order to assess their potential as vaccine candidates. Two LPS mutants, a single mutant designated lgt2 and a double mutant termed lgt2/lgt4, elaborating truncated inner core structures were generated in order to preclude expression of host-like outer core structures and to create an inner core structure that was shared by all three serotypes A, B and C of M. catarrhalis. Murine monoclonal antibodies (mAbs), designated MC2-1 and MC2-10 were obtained by immunising mice with the lgt2 mutant of M. catarrhalis serotype A strain. We showed that mAb MC2-1 can bind to the core LPS of wild-type (wt) serotype A, B and C organisms and concluded that mAb MC2-1 defines an immunogenic inner core epitope of M. catarrhalis LPS. We were unsuccessful in obtaining mAbs to the lgt2/lgt4 mutant. MAb MC2-10 only recognised the lgt2 mutant and the wt serotype A strain, and exhibited a strong requirement for the terminal N-acetyl-glucosamine residue of the lgt2 mutant core oligosaccharide, suggesting that this residue was immunodominant. Subsequently, we showed that both mAbs MC2-1 and MC2-10 could facilitate bactericidal killing of the lgt2 mutant, however neither mAb could facilitate bactericidal killing of the wt serotype A strain. We then confirmed and extended the candidacy of the inner core LPS by demonstrating that it is possible to elicit functional antibodies against M. catarrhalis wt strains following immunisation of rabbits with glycoconjugates elaborating the conserved inner core LPS antigen. The present study describes three conjugation strategies that either uses amidases produced by Dictyostelium discoideum, targeting the amino functionality created by the amidase activity as the attachment point on the LPS molecule, or a strong base treatment to remove all fatty acids from the LPS, thus creating amino functionalities in the lipid A region to conjugate via maleimide-thiol linker strategies targeting the carboxyl residues of the carrier protein and the free amino functionalities of the derived lipid A region of the carbohydrate resulted in a high loading of carbohydrates per carrier protein from these carbohydrate preparations. Immunisation derived antisera from rabbits recognised fully extended M. catarrhalis LPS and whole cells. Moreover, bactericidal activity was demonstrated to both the immunising carbohydrate antigen and importantly to wt cells, thus further supporting the consideration of inner core LPS as a potential vaccine antigen to combat disease caused by M. catarrhalis.

Couto, C. A., et al. (2011). "PARP regulates nonhomologous end joining through retention of Ku at double-strand breaks." J Cell Biol 194(3): 367-375.
	Poly adenosine diphosphate (ADP)-ribosylation (PARylation) by poly ADP-ribose (PAR) polymerases (PARPs) is an early response to DNA double-strand breaks (DSBs). In this paper, we exploit Dictyostelium discoideum to uncover a novel role for PARylation in regulating nonhomologous end joining (NHEJ). PARylation occurred at single-strand breaks, and two PARPs, Adprt1b and Adprt2, were required for resistance to this kind of DNA damage. In contrast, although Adprt1b was dispensable for PARylation at DSBs, Adprt1a and, to a lesser extent, Adprt2 were required for this event. Disruption of adprt2 had a subtle impact on the ability of cells to perform NHEJ. However, disruption of adprt1a decreased the ability of cells to perform end joining with a concomitant increase in homologous recombination. PAR-dependent regulation of NHEJ was achieved through promoting recruitment and/or retention of Ku at DSBs. Furthermore, a PAR interaction motif in Ku70 was required for this regulation and efficient NHEJ. These data illustrate that PARylation at DSBs promotes NHEJ through recruitment or retention of repair factors at sites of DNA damage.

Chen, C., et al. (2011). "Structural insights into the dual substrate specificities of mammalian and Dictyostelium dihydropteridine reductases toward two stereoisomers of quinonoid dihydrobiopterin." FEBS Lett 585(17): 2640-2646.
	Up to now, d-threo-tetrahydrobiopterin (DH(4), dictyopterin) was detected only in Dictyostelium discoideum, while the isomer L-erythro-tetrahydrobioterin (BH(4)) is common in mammals. To elucidate the mechanism of DH(4) regeneration by D. discoideum dihydropteridine reductase (DicDHPR), we have determined the crystal structure of DicDHPR complexed with NAD(+) at 2.16 A resolution. Significant structural differences from mammalian DHPRs are found around the coenzyme binding site, resulting in a higher K(m) value for NADH (K(m)=46.51+/-0.4 muM) than mammals. In addition, we have found that rat DHPR as well as DicDHPR could bind to both substrates quinonoid-BH(2) and quinonoid-DH(2) by docking calculations and have confirmed their catalytic activity by in vitro assay.

Chattwood, A. and C. R. Thompson (2011). "Non-genetic heterogeneity and cell fate choice in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev Growth Differ 53(4): 558-566.
	From microbes to metazoans, it is now clear that fluctuations in the abundance of mRNA transcripts and protein molecules enable genetically identical cells to oscillate between several distinct states (Kaern et al. 2005). Since this cell-cell variability does not derive from physical differences in the genetic code it is termed non-genetic heterogeneity. Non-genetic heterogeneity endows cell populations with useful capabilities they could never achieve if each cell were the same as its neighbors (Raj &amp; van Oudenaarden 2008; Eldar &amp; Elowitz 2010). One such example is seen during multicellular development and "salt and pepper" cell type differentiation. In this review, we will first examine the importance of non-genetic heterogeneity in initiating "salt and pepper" pattern formation during Dictyostelium discoideum development. Second, we will discuss the various ways in which non-genetic heterogeneity might be generated, as well as recent advances in understanding the molecular basis of heterogeneity in this system.

Chakraborty, A., et al. (2011). "Inositol pyrophosphates as mammalian cell signals." Sci Signal 4(188): re1.
	Inositol pyrophosphates are highly energetic inositol polyphosphate molecules present in organisms from slime molds and yeast to mammals. Distinct classes of enzymes generate different forms of inositol pyrophosphates. The biosynthesis of these substances principally involves phosphorylation of inositol hexakisphosphate (IP) to generate the pyrophosphate IP. Initial insights into functions of these substances derived primarily from yeast, which contain a single isoform of IP kinase (yIPK), as well as from the slime mold Dictyostelium. Mammalian functions for inositol pyrophosphates have been investigated by using cell lines to establish roles in various processes, including insulin secretion and apoptosis. More recently, mice with targeted deletion of IPK isoforms as well as the related inositol polyphosphate multikinase (IPMK) have substantially enhanced our understanding of inositol polyphosphate physiology. Phenotypic alterations in mice lacking inositol hexakisphosphate kinase 1 (IPK1) reveal signaling roles for these molecules in insulin homeostasis, obesity, and immunological functions. Inositol pyrophosphates regulate these processes at least in part by inhibiting activation of the serine-threonine kinase Akt. Similar studies of IPK2 establish this enzyme as a cell death inducer acting by stimulating the proapoptotic protein p53. IPMK is responsible for generating the inositol phosphate IP but also has phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase activity--that participates in activation of Akt. Here, we discuss recent advances in understanding the physiological functions of the inositol pyrophosphates based in substantial part on studies in mice with deletion of IPK isoforms. These findings highlight the interplay of IPMK and IPK in regulating growth factor and nutrient-mediated cell signaling.

Cha, I. and T. J. Jeon (2011). "Dynamic localization of the actin-bundling protein cortexillin I during cell migration." Mol Cells 32(3): 281-287.
	Cortexillins are actin-bundling proteins that play a critical role in regulating cell morphology and actin cytoskeleton reorganization in Dictyostelium. Here, we investigated dynamic subcellular localization of cortexillin I in chemotaxing Dictyostelium cells. Most of the cortexillin I was enriched on the lateral sides of moving cells. Upon chemoattractant stimulation, cortexillin I was rapidly released from the cortex followed by a transient translocation to the cell cortex with a peak at ~5 s and a subsequent decrease to basal levels, indicating that localization of cor-texillin I at the cortex in chemotaxing cells is controlled by two more signaling components, one for the initial delocalization from the cortex and another for the translocation to the cortex ~5 s after chemoattractant stimulation. Loss of cortexillins leads to reduced cell polarity and an increased number of lateral pseudopodia during chemotaxis, suggesting that cortexillins play an inhibitory role in producing pseudopodia along the lateral sides of the cell. Cells lacking cortexillins displayed extended chemoattrac-tant-mediated Arp2/3 complex translocation kinetics to the cortex. Our present study provides a new insight into the function of cortexillins during reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton and cell migration.

Catalano, A., et al. (2011). "Dictyostelium puromycin-sensitive aminopeptidase A is a nucleoplasmic nucleomorphin-binding protein that relocates to the cytoplasm during mitosis." Histochem Cell Biol 136(6): 677-688.
	Nucleomorphin (NumA1) is a nucleolar/nucleoplasmic protein linked to cell cycle in Dictyostelium. It interacts with puromycin-sensitive aminopeptidase A (PsaA) which in other organisms is a Zn(2+)-metallopeptidase thought to be involved in cell cycle progression and is involved in several human diseases. Here, we have shown that Dictyostelium PsaA contains domains characteristic of the M1 family of Zn(2+)-metallopeptidases: a GAMEN motif and a Zn(2+)-binding domain. PsaA colocalized with NumA1 in the nucleoplasm in vegetative cells and was also present to a lesser extent in the cytoplasm. The same localization pattern was observed in cells from slugs, however, in fruiting bodies PsaA was only detected in spore nuclei. During mitosis PsaA redistributed mainly throughout the cytoplasm. It possesses a functional nuclear localization signal ((680)RKRF(683)) necessary for nuclear entry. To our knowledge, this is the first nuclear localization signal identified in a Psa from any organism. Treatment with Ca(2+) chelators or calmodulin antagonists indicated that neither Ca(2+) nor calmodulin is involved in PsaA localization. These results are interpreted in terms of the inter-relationship between NumA1 and PsaA in cell function in Dictyostelium.

Catalano, A. and D. H. O'Day (2011). "Nucleolar localization and identification of nuclear/nucleolar localization signals of the calmodulin-binding protein nucleomorphin during growth and mitosis in Dictyostelium." Histochem Cell Biol 135(3): 239-249.
	The calmodulin-binding protein nucleomorphin isoform NumA1 is a nuclear number regulator in Dictyostelium that localizes to intra-nuclear patches adjacent to the nuclear envelope and to a lesser extent the nucleoplasm. Earlier studies have shown similar patches to be nucleoli but only three nucleolar proteins have been identified in Dictyostelium. Here, actinomycin-D treatment caused the loss of NumA1 localization, while calcium and calmodulin antagonists had no effect. In keeping with a nucleolar function, NumA1 moved out of the presumptive nucleoli during mitosis redistributing to areas within the nucleus, the spindle fibers, and centrosomal region before re-accumulating in the presumptive nucleoli at telophase. Together, these data verify NumA1 as a true nucleolar protein. Prior to this study, the dynamics of specific nucleolar proteins had not been determined during mitosis in Dictyostelium. FITC-conjugated peptides equivalent to presumptive nuclear localization signals within NumA1 localized to nucleoli indicating that they also act as nucleolar localization signals. To our knowledge, these represent the first precisely defined nucleolar localization signals as well as the first nuclear/nucleolar localization signals identified in Dictyostelium. Together, these results reveal that NumA1 is a true nucleolar protein and the only nucleolar calmodulin-binding protein identified in Dictyostelium. The possible use of nuclear/nucleolar localization signal-mediated drug targeting to nucleoli is discussed.

Carnell, M. J. and R. H. Insall (2011). "Actin on disease--studying the pathobiology of cell motility using Dictyostelium discoideum." Semin Cell Dev Biol 22(1): 82-88.
	The actin cytoskeleton in eukaryotic cells provides cell structure and organisation, and allows cells to generate forces against membranes. As such it is a central component of a variety of cellular structures involved in cell motility, cytokinesis and vesicle trafficking. In multicellular organisms these processes contribute towards embryonic development and effective functioning of cells of all types, most obviously rapidly moving cells like lymphocytes. Actin also defines and maintains the architecture of complex structures such as neuronal synapses and stereocillia, and is required for basic housekeeping tasks within the cell. It is therefore not surprising that misregulation of the actin cytoskeleton can cause a variety of disease pathologies, including compromised immunity, neurodegeneration, and cancer spread. Dictyostelium discoideum has long been used as a tool for dissecting the mechanisms by which eukaryotic cells migrate and chemotax, and recently it has gained precedence as a model organism for studying the roles of conserved pathways in disease processes. Dictyostelium's unusual lifestyle, positioned between unicellular and multicellular organisms, combined with ease of handling and strong conservation of actin regulatory machinery with higher animals, make it ideally suited for studying actin-related diseases. Here we address how research in Dictyostelium has contributed to our understanding of immune deficiencies and neurological defects in humans, and briefly discuss its future prospects for furthering our understanding of neurodegenerative disorders.

Carnell, M., et al. (2011). "Actin polymerization driven by WASH causes V-ATPase retrieval and vesicle neutralization before exocytosis." J Cell Biol 193(5): 831-839.
	WASP and SCAR homologue (WASH) is a recently identified and evolutionarily conserved regulator of actin polymerization. In this paper, we show that WASH coats mature Dictyostelium discoideum lysosomes and is essential for exocytosis of indigestible material. A related process, the expulsion of the lethal endosomal pathogen Cryptococcus neoformans from mammalian macrophages, also uses WASH-coated vesicles, and cells expressing dominant negative WASH mutants inefficiently expel C. neoformans. D. discoideum WASH causes filamentous actin (F-actin) patches to form on lysosomes, leading to the removal of vacuolar adenosine triphosphatase (V-ATPase) and the neutralization of lysosomes to form postlysosomes. Without WASH, no patches or coats are formed, neutral postlysosomes are not seen, and indigestible material such as dextran is not exocytosed. Similar results occur when actin polymerization is blocked with latrunculin. V-ATPases are known to bind avidly to F-actin. Our data imply a new mechanism, actin-mediated sorting, in which WASH and the Arp2/3 complex polymerize actin on vesicles to drive the separation and recycling of proteins such as the V-ATPase.

Calvo-Garrido, J., et al. (2011). "A proteolytic cleavage assay to monitor autophagy in Dictyostelium discoideum." Autophagy 7(9): 1063-1068.
	Dictyostelium discoideum is a good model of autophagy. However, the lack of autophagic flux techniques hinders the assessment of new mutants or drugs. One of these techniques, which has been used successfully in yeast and mammalian cells, but has not yet been described in Dictyostelium, is based on the presence of proteolytic fragments derived from autophagic degradation of expressed fusion proteins. Lysosomotropic agents such as NH 4Cl penetrate acidic compartments and raise their pH, thus allowing the accumulation and measurement of these cleaved fragments, which otherwise would be rapidly degraded. We have used this property to detect the presence of free GFP fragments derived from the fusion protein GFP-Tkt-1, a cytosolic marker. We demonstrate that this proteolytic event is dependent on autophagy and can be used to detect differences in the level of autophagic flux among different mutant strains. Moreover, treatment with NH4Cl also facilitates the assessment of autophagic flux by confocal microscopy using the marker RFP-GFP-Atg8.

Cai, H. and P. N. Devreotes (2011). "Moving in the right direction: how eukaryotic cells migrate along chemical gradients." Semin Cell Dev Biol 22(8): 834-841.
	Many cells have the ability to grow or migrate towards chemical cues. Oriented growth and movement require detection of the external chemical gradient, transduction of signals, and reorganization of the cytoskeleton. Recent studies in Dictyostelium discoideum and mammalian neutrophils have revealed a complex signaling network that enables cells to migrate in chemical gradients.

Budniak, A. and D. H. O'Day (2011). "Tyrosine phosphorylation of actin during microcyst formation and germination in Polysphondylium pallidum." Protist 162(3): 490-502.
	High osmolarity causes amoebae of the cellular slime mould Polysphondylium pallidum to individually encyst, forming microcysts. During microcyst differentiation, actin is tyrosine phosphorylated. Tyrosine phosphorylation of actin is independent of encystment conditions and occurs during the final stages of microcyst formation. During microcyst germination, actin undergoes dephosphorylation prior to amoebal emergence. Renewed phosphorylation of actin in germinating microcysts can be triggered by increasing the osmolarity of the medium which inhibits emergence. Immunofluorescence reveals that actin is dispersed throughout the cytoplasm in dormant microcysts. Following the onset of germination, actin is observed around vesicles where it co-localizes with phosphotyrosine. Prior to emergence, actin localizes to patches near the cell surface. Increasing osmolarity disrupts this localization and causes actin to redistribute throughout the cytoplasm, a situation similar to that observed in dormant microcysts. The tyrosine phosphorylation state of actin does not appear to influence the long-term viability of dormant microcysts. Together, these results indicate an association between actin tyrosine phosphorylation, organization of the actin cytoskeleton, and microcyst dormancy.

Brock, D. A., et al. (2011). "Primitive agriculture in a social amoeba." Nature 469(7330): 393-396.
	Agriculture has been a large part of the ecological success of humans. A handful of animals, notably the fungus-growing ants, termites and ambrosia beetles, have advanced agriculture that involves dispersal and seeding of food propagules, cultivation of the crop and sustainable harvesting. More primitive examples, which could be called husbandry because they involve fewer adaptations, include marine snails farming intertidal fungi and damselfish farming algae. Recent work has shown that microorganisms are surprisingly like animals in having sophisticated behaviours such as cooperation, communication and recognition, as well as many kinds of symbiosis. Here we show that the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum has a primitive farming symbiosis that includes dispersal and prudent harvesting of the crop. About one-third of wild-collected clones engage in husbandry of bacteria. Instead of consuming all bacteria in their patch, they stop feeding early and incorporate bacteria into their fruiting bodies. They then carry bacteria during spore dispersal and can seed a new food crop, which is a major advantage if edible bacteria are lacking at the new site. However, if they arrive at sites already containing appropriate bacteria, the costs of early feeding cessation are not compensated for, which may account for the dichotomous nature of this farming symbiosis. The striking convergent evolution between bacterial husbandry in social amoebas and fungus farming in social insects makes sense because multigenerational benefits of farming go to already established kin groups.

Bradbury, R. S., et al. (2011). "Decreased virulence of cystic fibrosis Pseudomonas aeruginosa in Dictyostelium discoideum." Microbiol Immunol 55(4): 224-230.
	The characteristics of clinical and environmental isolates of Pseudomonas aeruginosa from both hospital and community settings were analyzed in a eukaryotic virulence model employing the AX2 and X22 mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum. Thirty-one strains, including two Australian epidemic strains, of P. aeruginosa were analyzed, five from environmental sources, six from clinical sources other than cystic fibrosis (CF) patients and nineteen from CF patients' respiratory secretions. The majority of CF isolates almost uniquely supported the growth of D. discoideum. CF isolates of P. aeruginosa were found to be less virulent than isolates from other sources. Varying degrees of inhibition of the developmental cycle of D. discoideum when growing on CF isolates were also noted. This is the first description of P. aeruginosa isolates from clinical and environmental sources supporting the growth of D. discoideum.

Bozzaro, S. and L. Eichinger (2011). "The professional phagocyte Dictyostelium discoideum as a model host for bacterial pathogens." Curr Drug Targets 12(7): 942-954.
	The use of simple hosts such as Dictyostelium discoideum in the study of host pathogen interactions offers a number of advantages and has steadily increased in recent years. Infection-specific genes can often only be studied in a very limited way in man and even in the mouse model their analysis is usually expensive, time consuming and technically challenging or sometimes even impossible. In contrast, their functional analysis in D. discoideum and other simple model organisms is often easier, faster and cheaper. Because host-pathogen interactions necessarily involve two organisms, it is desirable to be able to genetically manipulate both the pathogen and its host. Particularly suited are those hosts, like D. discoideum, whose genome sequence is known and annotated and for which excellent genetic and cell biological tools are available in order to dissect the complex crosstalk between host and pathogen. The review focusses on host-pathogen interactions of D. discoideum with Legionella pneumophila, mycobacteria, and Salmonella typhimurium which replicate intracellularly.

Bowman, R. L., et al. (2011). "eIF2alpha kinases control chalone production in Dictyostelium discoideum." Eukaryot Cell 10(4): 494-501.
	Growing Dictyostelium cells secrete CfaD and AprA, two proteins that have been characterized as chalones. They exist within a high-molecular-weight complex that reversibly inhibits cell proliferation, but not growth, via cell surface receptors and a signaling pathway that includes G proteins. How the production of these two proteins is regulated is unknown. Dictyostelium cells possess three GCN2-type eukaryotic initiation factor 2 alpha subunit (eIF2alpha) kinases, proteins that phosphorylate the translational initiation factor eIF2alpha and possess a tRNA binding domain involved in their regulation. The Dictyostelium kinases have been shown to function during development in regulating several processes. We show here that expression of an unregulated, activated kinase domain greatly inhibits cell proliferation. The inhibitory effect on proliferation is not due to a general inhibition of translation. Instead, it is due to enhanced production of a secreted factor(s). Indeed, extracellular CfaD and AprA proteins, but not their mRNAs, are overproduced in cells expressing the activated kinase domain. The inhibition of proliferation is not seen when the activated kinase domain is expressed in cells lacking CfaD or AprA or in cells that contain a nonphosphorylatable eIF2alpha. We conclude that production of the chalones CfaD and AprA is translationally regulated by eIF2alpha phosphorylation. Both proteins are upregulated at the culmination of development, and this enhanced production is lacking in a strain that possesses a nonphosphorylatable eIF2alpha.

Bonifait, L., et al. (2011). "Amoeba host model for evaluation of Streptococcus suis virulence." Appl Environ Microbiol 77(17): 6271-6273.
	The Gram-positive bacterium Streptococcus suis is a major swine pathogen worldwide that causes meningitis, septicemia, and endocarditis. In this study, we demonstrate that the amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum can be a relevant alternative system to study the virulence of S. suis.

Boesler, C., et al. (2011). "Sequence and generation of mature ribosomal RNA transcripts in Dictyostelium discoideum." J Biol Chem 286(20): 17693-17703.
	The amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum is a well established model organism for studying numerous aspects of cellular and developmental functions. Its ribosomal RNA (rRNA) is encoded in an extrachromosomal palindrome that exists in approximately 100 copies in the cell. In this study, we have set out to investigate the sequence of the expressed rRNA. For this, we have ligated the rRNA ends and performed RT-PCR on these circular RNAs. Sequencing revealed that the mature 26 S, 17 S, 5.8 S, and 5 S rRNAs have sizes of 3741, 1871, 162, and 112 nucleotides, respectively. Unlike the published data, all mature rRNAs of the same type uniformly display the same start and end nucleotides in the analyzed AX2 strain. We show the existence of a short lived primary transcript covering the rRNA transcription unit of 17 S, 5.8 S, and 26 S rRNA. Northern blots and RT-PCR reveal that from this primary transcript two precursor molecules of the 17 S and two precursors of the 26 S rRNA are generated. We have also determined the sequences of these precursor molecules, and based on these data, we propose a model for the maturation of the rRNAs in Dictyostelium discoideum that we compare with the processing of the rRNA transcription unit of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.

Bloomfield, G. (2011). "Genetics of sex determination in the social amoebae." Dev Growth Differ 53(4): 608-616.
	The social amoebae possess a sexual cycle that involves transient mutlicellularity: first a zygote attracts surrounding haploid amoebae to form a walled aggregate around it, and then cannibalizes these peripheral cells, eventually forming a dormant single-celled macrocyst. Self-fertile homothallic isolates occur as well as breeding groups of self-infertile heterothallic cells, which commonly have more than two mating types. The mating-type locus of the widely studied model organism Dictyostelium discoideum, which has three mating types, has recently been identified. Two of the three mating types are determined by single putative regulatory genes bearing no mutual similarity, while the third is specified by homologues of both of these genes. This is the first sex-determining locus of an Amoebozoan to be described and, since none of the key regulators show homology to known proteins, may be a first glimpse of a novel mode of regulation used in these organisms. The sexual cycle of dictyostelids has been relatively neglected, but continues to yield much interesting biology as well as having the potential to add to the genetic tools available for the study of these organisms.

Blagg, S. L., et al. (2011). "Cell type-specific filamin complex regulation by a novel class of HECT ubiquitin ligase is required for normal cell motility and patterning." Development 138(8): 1583-1593.
	Differential cell motility, which plays a key role in many developmental processes, is perhaps most evident in examples of pattern formation in which the different cell types arise intermingled before sorting out into discrete tissues. This is thought to require heterogeneities in responsiveness to differentiation-inducing signals that result in the activation of cell type-specific genes and 'salt and pepper' patterning. How differential gene expression results in cell sorting is poorly defined. Here we describe a novel gene (hfnA) that provides the first mechanistic link between cell signalling, differential gene expression and cell type-specific sorting in Dictyostelium. HfnA defines a novel group of evolutionarily conserved HECT ubiquitin ligases with an N-terminal filamin domain (HFNs). HfnA expression is induced by the stalk differentiation-inducing factor DIF-1 and is restricted to a subset of prestalk cells (pstO). hfnA(-) pstO cells differentiate but their sorting out is delayed. Genetic interactions suggest that this is due to misregulation of filamin complex activity. Overexpression of filamin complex members phenocopies the hfnA(-) pstO cell sorting defect, whereas disruption of filamin complex function in a wild-type background results in pstO cells sorting more strongly. Filamin disruption in an hfnA(-) background rescues pstO cell localisation. hfnA(-) cells exhibit altered slug phototaxis phenotypes consistent with filamin complex hyperactivity. We propose that HfnA regulates filamin complex activity and cell type-specific motility through the breakdown of filamin complexes. These findings provide a novel mechanism for filamin regulation and demonstrate that filamin is a crucial mechanistic link between responses to differentiation signals and cell movement in patterning based on 'salt and pepper' differentiation and sorting out.

Bilzer, A., et al. (2011). "The C-module-binding factor supports amplification of TRE5-A retrotransposons in the Dictyostelium discoideum genome." Eukaryot Cell 10(1): 81-86.
	Retrotransposable elements are molecular parasites that have invaded the genomes of virtually all organisms. Although retrotransposons encode essential proteins to mediate their amplification, they also require assistance by host cell-encoded machineries that perform functions such as DNA transcription and repair. The retrotransposon TRE5-A of the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum generates a notable amount of both sense and antisense RNAs, which are generated from element-internal promoters, located in the A module and the C module, respectively. We observed that TRE5-A retrotransposons depend on the C-module-binding factor (CbfA) to maintain high steady-state levels of TRE5-A transcripts and that CbfA supports the retrotransposition activity of TRE5-A elements. The carboxy-terminal domain of CbfA was found to be required and sufficient to mediate the accumulation of TRE5-A transcripts, but it did not support productive retrotransposition of TRE5-A. This result suggests different roles for CbfA protein domains in the regulation of TRE5-A retrotransposition frequency in D. discoideum cells. Although CbfA binds to the C module in vitro, the factor regulates neither C-module nor A-module promoter activity in vivo. We speculate that CbfA supports the amplification of TRE5-A retrotransposons by suppressing the expression of an as yet unidentified component of the cellular posttranscriptional gene silencing machinery.

Bastounis, E., et al. (2011). "The SCAR/WAVE complex is necessary for proper regulation of traction stresses during amoeboid motility." Mol Biol Cell 22(21): 3995-4003.
	Cell migration requires a tightly regulated, spatiotemporal coordination of underlying biochemical pathways. Crucial to cell migration is SCAR/WAVE-mediated dendritic F-actin polymerization at the cell's leading edge. Our goal is to understand the role the SCAR/WAVE complex plays in the mechanics of amoeboid migration. To this aim, we measured and compared the traction stresses exerted by Dictyostelium cells lacking the SCAR/WAVE complex proteins PIR121 (pirA(-)) and SCAR (scrA(-)) with those of wild-type cells while they were migrating on flat, elastic substrates. We found that, compared to wild type, both mutant strains exert traction stresses of different strengths that correlate with their F-actin levels. In agreement with previous studies, we found that wild-type cells migrate by repeating a motility cycle in which the cell length and strain energy exerted by the cells on their substrate vary periodically. Our analysis also revealed that scrA(-) cells display an altered motility cycle with a longer period and a lower migration velocity, whereas pirA(-) cells migrate in a random manner without implementing a periodic cycle. We present detailed characterization of the traction-stress phenotypes of the various cell lines, providing new insights into the role of F-actin polymerization in regulating cell-substratum interactions and stresses required for motility.

Balest, A., et al. (2011). "Legionella pneumophila infection is enhanced in a RacH-null mutant of Dictyostelium." Commun Integr Biol 4(2): 194-197.
	Recently we reported that Dictyostelium cells ingest Legionella pneumophila by macropinocytosis, whereas other bacteria, such as Escherichia coli, Mycobacterium avium, Neisseria meningitidis or Salmonella typhimurium, are taken up by phagocytosis.1 In contrast to phagocytosis, macropinocytosis is partially inhibited by PI3K or PTEN inactivation, whereas both processes are sensitive to PLC inhibition. Independently from reduced uptake, L. pneumophila proliferates more efficiently in PI3K-null than in wild-type cells. PI3K inactivation also neutralizes resistance to infection conferred by constitutively expressing the endo-lysosomal iron transporter Nramp1. We have shown this to be due to altered recruitment of the V-H(+) ATPase, but not Nramp1, in the Legionella-containing vacuole (LCV) early during infection.1 As further evidence for impaired LCV acidification we examine here the effects of disrupting the small G protein RacH on Legionella infection.

Avesson, L., et al. (2011). "Abundant class of non-coding RNA regulates development in the social amoeba dictyostelium discoideum." RNA Biol 8(6).
	Non-coding (nc)RNAs are important players in most biological processes. Although small RNAs such as microRNAs and small interfering RNAs have emerged as exceptionally important regulators of gene expression, great numbers of larger ncRNAs have also been identified. Many of these are abundant and differentially expressed but their functions have in most cases not been elucidated. The social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum contain the ncRNAs commonly found in eukaryotes. In addition, we previously reported the identification of two novel classes of 42-65 nt long stem-loop forming RNAs, Class I and Class II RNAs, with unknown function. In this study we have further characterized these abundant ncRNAs, which are down regulated during development. We have confirmed expression of 29 Class I RNAs and experimentally verified the formation of the computationally predicted short conserved stem structure. Furthermore, we have for the first time created knockout strains for several small ncRNA genes in D. discoideum and found that deletion of one of the Class I RNAs, DdR-21, results in aberrant development. In addition we have shown that this Class I RNA forms a complex with one or several proteins but do not appear to be associated with ribosomes or polysomes. In a pull down assay, several proteins interacting with DdR-21 were identified, one of these has two RNA recognition motifs (RRMs). The purified RRM containing protein was demonstrated to bind directly and specifically to DdR-21.

Artemenko, Y., et al. (2011). "Assessment of development and chemotaxis in Dictyostelium discoideum mutants." Methods Mol Biol 769: 287-309.
	Studies using the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum have greatly contributed to the current understanding of the signaling network that underlies chemotaxis. Since directed migration is essential for normal D. discoideum multicellular development, mutants with chemotactic impairments are likely to have abnormal developmental morphologies. We have used multicellular development as a readout in a screen of mutants to identify new potential regulators of chemotaxis. In this chapter, we describe how mutants generated by restriction enzyme-mediated integration (REMI) are analyzed, from assessment of development to detailed characterization of 3',5'-cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP)-induced responses. Two complementary approaches, plating cells either clonally on a bacterial lawn or as a population on non-nutrient agar, are used to evaluate multicellular development. Once mutants with aberrant developmental phenotypes are identified, their chemotaxis toward cAMP is assessed by both small population and micropipette assays. Furthermore, mutants are tested for defects in both general and specific signaling pathways by examining the recruitment of actin-binding LimE(Deltacoil) or PIP3-binding PH domains to the plasma membrane in response to cAMP stimulation.

Annesley, S. J., et al. (2011). "A genetic interaction between NDPK and AMPK in Dictyostelium discoideum that affects motility, growth and development." Naunyn Schmiedebergs Arch Pharmacol 384(4-5): 341-349.
	Many of the expanding roles of nucleoside diphosphate kinase have been attributed to its ability to interact with other proteins. One proposal is an interaction with the cellular energy sensor AMP-activated protein kinase, and here, we apply the simple eukaryotic organism, Dictyostelium discoideum as a test model. Stable cotransformants were created in which NDPK expression was knocked down by antisense inhibition, and AMPK activity was chronically elevated either by constitutive overexpression of its active, catalytic domain (AMPKalphaT) or as a result of mitochondrial dysfunction (created by antisense inhibition of expression of a mitochondrial chaperone protein, chaperonin 60). To investigate a biochemical interaction, transformants were created which contained constructs expressing FLAG-NDPK and hexahistidine-tagged full-length AMPK or AMPKalphaT. The protein extract from these transformants was used in coimmunoprecipitations. Knock down of NDPK expression suppressed the phenotypic defects that are caused by AMPK hyperactivity resulting either from overexpression of AMPKalphaT or from mitochondrial dysfunction. These included rescue of defects in slug phototaxis, fruiting body morphology and growth in a liquid medium. Coimmunoprecipitation experiments failed to demonstrate a biochemical interaction between the two proteins. The results demonstrate a genetic interaction between NDPK and AMPK in Dictyostelium in that NDPK is required for the phenotypic effects of activated AMPK. Coimmunoprecipitations suggest that this interaction is not mediated by a direct interaction between the two proteins.

Annesley, S. J., et al. (2011). "Dictyostelium discoideum nucleoside diphosphate kinase C plays a negative regulatory role in phagocytosis, macropinocytosis and exocytosis." PLoS One 6(10): e26024.
	Nucleoside diphosphate kinases (NDPKs) are ubiquitous phosphotransfer enzymes responsible for producing most of the nucleoside triphosphates except for ATP. This role is important for the synthesis of nucleic acids and proteins and the metabolism of sugars and lipids. Apart from this housekeeping role NDPKs have been shown to have many regulatory functions in diverse cellular processes including proliferation and endocytosis. Although the protein has been shown to have a positive regulatory role in clathrin- and dynamin-mediated micropinocytosis, its roles in macropinocytosis and phagocytosis have not been studied. The additional non-housekeeping roles of NDPK are often independent of enzyme activity but dependent on the expression level of the protein. In this study we altered the expression level of NDPK in the model eukaryotic organism Dictyostelium discoideum through antisense inhibition and overexpression. We demonstrate that NDPK levels affect growth, endocytosis and exocytosis. In particular we find that Dictyostelium NDPK negatively regulates endocytosis in contrast to the positive regulatory role identified in higher eukaryotes. This can be explained by the differences in types of endocytosis that have been studied in the different systems - phagocytosis and macropinocytosis in Dictyostelium compared with micropinocytosis in mammalian cells. This is the first report of a role for NDPK in regulating macropinocytosis and phagocytosis, the former being the major fluid phase uptake mechanism for macrophages, dendritic cells and other (non dendritic) cells exposed to growth factors.

Anjard, C., et al. (2011). "The polyketide MPBD initiates the SDF-1 signaling cascade that coordinates terminal differentiation in Dictyostelium." Eukaryot Cell 10(7): 956-963.
	Dictyostelium uses a wide array of chemical signals to coordinate differentiation as it switches from a unicellular to a multicellular organism. MPBD, the product of the polyketide synthase encoded by stlA, regulates stalk and spore differentiation by rapidly stimulating the release of the phosphopeptide SDF-1. By analyzing specific mutants affected in MPBD or SDF-1 production, we delineated a signal transduction cascade through the membrane receptor CrlA coupled to Galpha1, leading to the inhibition of GskA so that the precursor of SDF-1 is released. It is then processed by the extracellular protease of TagB on prestalk cells. SDF-1 apparently acts through the adenylyl cyclase ACG to activate the cyclic AMP (cAMP)-dependent protein kinase A (PKA) and trigger the production of more SDF-1. This signaling cascade shows similarities to the SDF-2 signaling pathway, which acts later to induce rapid spore encapsulation.

Andersson, J. O. (2011). "Evolution of patchily distributed proteins shared between eukaryotes and prokaryotes: Dictyostelium as a case study." J Mol Microbiol Biotechnol 20(2): 83-95.
	Protein families are often patchily distributed in the tree of life; they are present in distantly related organisms, but absent in more closely related lineages. This could either be the result of lateral gene transfer between ancestors of organisms that encode them, or losses in the lineages that lack them. Here a novel approach is developed to study the evolution of patchily distributed proteins shared between prokaryotes and eukaryotes. Proteins encoded in the genome of cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum and a restricted number of other lineages, including at least one prokaryote, were identified. Analyses of the phylogenetic distribution of 49 such patchily distributed protein families showed conflicts with organismal phylogenies; 25 are shared with the distantly related amoeboflagellate Naegleria (Excavata), whereas only two are present in the more closely related Entamoeba. Most protein families show unexpected topologies in phylogenetic analyses; eukaryotes are polyphyletic in 85% of the trees. These observations suggest that gene transfers have been an important mechanism for the distribution of patchily distributed proteins across all domains of life. Further studies of this exchangeable gene fraction are needed for a better understanding of the origin and evolution of eukaryotic genes and the diversification process of eukaryotes.

Amagai, A. (2011). "Ethylene as a potent inducer of sexual development." Dev Growth Differ 53(4): 617-623.
	A novel and critical function of ethylene, a potent plant hormone, has been well documented in Dictyostelium, because it leads cells to the sexual development (macrocyst formation) by inducing zygote formation. Zygote formation (sexual cell fusion) and the subsequent nuclear fusion are the characteristic events occurring during macrocyst formation. A novel gene, zyg1 was found to be predominantly expressed during the sexual development, and its enforced expression actually induces zygote formation. As expected, the zygote inducer, ethylene enhances the expression of zyg1. Thus the function of ethylene has been verified at all of individual (macrocyst formation), cellular (zygote formation), and molecular levels (zyg1 expression). Based on our recent studies concerning the behavior and function of the zyg1 product (ZYG1 protein), the signal transduction pathways involved in zygote formation are proposed in this review.

Alibaud, L., et al. (2011). "A Mycobacterium marinum TesA mutant defective for major cell wall-associated lipids is highly attenuated in Dictyostelium discoideum and zebrafish embryos." Mol Microbiol 80(4): 919-934.
	Infection of the zebrafish with Mycobacterium marinum is regarded as a well-established experimental model to study the pathogenicity of Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Herein, a M. marinum transposon mutant library was screened for attenuated M. marinum phenotypes using a Dictyostelium discoideum assay. In one attenuated mutant, the transposon was located within tesA, encoding a putative type II thioesterase. Thin-layer chromatography analyses indicated that the tesA::Tn mutant failed to produce two major cell wall-associated lipids. Mass spectrometry and nuclear magnetic resonance clearly established the nature of missing lipids as phthioglycol diphthioceranates and phenolic glycolipids, respectively, indicating that TesA is required for the synthesis of both lipids. When injected into the zebrafish embryo bloodstream, the mutant was found to be highly attenuated, thus validating the performance and relevance of the Dictyostelium screen. Consistent with these in vivo findings, tesA::Tn exhibited increased permeability defects in vitro, which may explain its failure to survive in host macrophages. Unexpectedly, virulence was retained when bacteria were injected into the notochord. Histological and ultrastructural studies of the infected notochord revealed the presence of actively proliferating mycobacteria, leading to larval death. This work presents for the first time the notochord as a compartment highly susceptible to mycobacterial infection.

Alexander, S. and H. Alexander (2011). "Lead genetic studies in Dictyostelium discoideum and translational studies in human cells demonstrate that sphingolipids are key regulators of sensitivity to cisplatin and other anticancer drugs." Semin Cell Dev Biol 22(1): 97-104.
	A Dictyostelium discoideum mutant with a disruption in the sphingosine-1-phosphate (S-1-P) lyase gene was obtained in an unbiased genetic analysis, using random insertional mutagenesis, for mutants with increased resistance to the widely used cancer chemotherapeutic drug cisplatin. This finding opened the way to extensive studies in both D. discoideum and human cells on the role and mechanism of action of the bioactive sphingolipids S-1-P and ceramide in regulating the response to chemotherapeutic drugs. These studies showed that the levels of activities of the sphingolipid metabolizing enzymes S-1-P lyase, sphingosine kinase and ceramide synthase, affect whether a cell dies or lives in the presence of specific drugs. The demonstration that multiple enzymes of this biochemical pathway were involved in regulating drug sensitivity provided new opportunities to test whether pharmacological intervention might increase sensitivity. Thus it is of considerable clinical significance that pharmacological inhibition of sphingosine kinase synergistically sensitizes cells to cisplatin, both in D. discoideum and human cells. Linkage to the p38 MAP kinase and protein kinase C (PKC) signaling pathways has been demonstrated. This work demonstrates the utility of D. discoideum as a lead genetic system to interrogate molecular mechanisms controlling the sensitivity of tumor cells to chemotherapeutic agents and for determining novel ways of increasing efficacy. The D. discoideum system could be easily adapted to a high throughput screen for novel chemotherapeutic agents.

Al-Quadan, T. and Y. A. Kwaik (2011). "Molecular Characterization of Exploitation of the Polyubiquitination and Farnesylation Machineries of Dictyostelium Discoideum by the AnkB F-Box Effector of Legionella Pneumophila." Front Microbiol 2: 23.
	The Dot/Icm-translocated Ankyrin B (AnkB) F-box effector of Legionella pneumophila is essential for intra-vacuolar proliferation and functions as a platform for the docking of polyubiquitinated proteins to the Legionella-containing vacuole (LCV) within macrophages and ameba. Here we show that ectopically expressed AnkB in Dictyostelium discoideum is targeted to the plasma membrane where it recruits polyubiquitinated proteins and it trans-rescues the intracellular growth defect of the ankB null mutant, which has never been demonstrated for any effector in ameba. Using co-immunoprecipitation and bimolecular fluorescence complementation we show specific interaction of Skp1 of D. discoideum with the F-box domain of AnkB, which has never been demonstrated in ameba. We show that anchoring of AnkB to the cytosolic face of the LCV membrane in D. discoideum is mediated by the host farnesylation of the C-terminal eukaryotic CaaX motif of AnkB and is independent of the F-box and the two ANK domains, which has never been demonstrated in ameba. Importantly, the three host farnesylation enzymes farnesyl transferase, RCE-1, and isoprenyl cysteine carboxyl methyl transferase of D. discoideum are recruited to the LCV in a Dot/Icm-dependent manner, which has never been demonstrated in ameba. We conclude that the polyubiquitination and farnesylation enzymatic machineries of D. discoideum are recruited to the LCV in a Dot/Icm-dependent manner and the AnkB effector exploits the two evolutionarily conserved eukaryotic machineries to proliferate within ameba, similar to mammalian cells. We propose that L. pneumophila has acquired ankB through inter-kingdom horizontal gene transfer from primitive eukaryotes, which facilitated proliferation of L. pneumophila within human cells and the emergence of Legionnaires' disease.

Aggarwal, R. K., et al. (2011). "Permanent genetic resources added to Molecular Ecology Resources Database 1 August 2010-30 September 2010." Mol Ecol Resour 11(1): 219-222.
	This article documents the addition of 229 microsatellite marker loci to the Molecular Ecology Resources Database. Loci were developed for the following species: Acacia auriculiformis x Acacia mangium hybrid, Alabama argillacea, Anoplopoma fimbria, Aplochiton zebra, Brevicoryne brassicae, Bruguiera gymnorhiza, Bucorvus leadbeateri, Delphacodes detecta, Tumidagena minuta, Dictyostelium giganteum, Echinogammarus berilloni, Epimedium sagittatum, Fraxinus excelsior, Labeo chrysophekadion, Oncorhynchus clarki lewisi, Paratrechina longicornis, Phaeocystis antarctica, Pinus roxburghii and Potamilus capax. These loci were cross-tested on the following species: Acacia peregrinalis, Acacia crassicarpa, Bruguiera cylindrica, Delphacodes detecta, Tumidagena minuta, Dictyostelium macrocephalum, Dictyostelium discoideum, Dictyostelium purpureum, Dictyostelium mucoroides, Dictyostelium rosarium, Polysphondylium pallidum, Epimedium brevicornum, Epimedium koreanum, Epimedium pubescens, Epimedium wushanese and Fraxinus angustifolia.

Afonso, P. V. and C. A. Parent (2011). "PI3K and chemotaxis: a priming issue?" Sci Signal 4(170): pe22.
	Although the spatiotemporal activation of phosphoinositide 3-kinases (PI3Ks) at the leading edge of chemotaxing cells represents a key marker of polarity, both Dictyostelium discoideum and neutrophils lacking measurable PI3K activity can still migrate directionally under certain conditions. Evidence from various papers suggests that the differentiation state of cells or their priming status can consolidate otherwise contradictory findings.

Adamek, M., et al. (2011). "Genotyping of environmental and clinical Stenotrophomonas maltophilia isolates and their pathogenic potential." PLoS One 6(11): e27615.
	Stenotrophomonas maltophilia is a highly versatile species with useful biotechnological potential but also with pathogenic properties. In light of possible differences in virulence characteristics, knowledge about genomic subgroups is therefore desirable. Two different genotyping methods, rep-PCR fingerprinting and partial gyrB gene sequencing were used to elucidate S. maltophilia intraspecies diversity. Rep-PCR fingerprinting revealed the presence of 12 large subgroups, while gyrB gene sequencing distinguished 10 subgroups. For 8 of them, the same strain composition was shown with both typing methods. A subset of 59 isolates representative for the gyrB groups was further investigated with regards to their pathogenic properties in a virulence model using Dictyostelium discoideum and Acanthamoeba castellanii as host organisms. A clear tendency towards accumulation of virulent strains could be observed for one group with A. castellanii and for two groups with D. discoideum. Several virulent strains did not cluster in any of the genetic groups, while other groups displayed no virulence properties at all. The amoeba pathogenicity model proved suitable in showing differences in S. maltophilia virulence. However, the model is still not sufficient to completely elucidate virulence as critical for a human host, since several strains involved in human infections did not show any virulence against amoeba.

Abad, M. G., et al. (2011). "A role for tRNA(His) guanylyltransferase (Thg1)-like proteins from Dictyostelium discoideum in mitochondrial 5'-tRNA editing." Rna 17(4): 613-623.
	Genes with sequence similarity to the yeast tRNA(His) guanylyltransferase (Thg1) gene have been identified in all three domains of life, and Thg1 family enzymes are implicated in diverse processes, ranging from tRNA(His) maturation to 5'-end repair of tRNAs. All of these activities take advantage of the ability of Thg1 family enzymes to catalyze 3'-5' nucleotide addition reactions. Although many Thg1-containing organisms have a single Thg1-related gene, certain eukaryotic microbes possess multiple genes with sequence similarity to Thg1. Here we investigate the activities of four Thg1-like proteins (TLPs) encoded by the genome of the slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum (a member of the eukaryotic supergroup Amoebozoa). We show that one of the four TLPs is a bona fide Thg1 ortholog, a cytoplasmic G(-1) addition enzyme likely to be responsible for tRNA(His) maturation in D. discoideum. Two other D. discoideum TLPs exhibit biochemical activities consistent with a role for these enzymes in mitochondrial 5'-tRNA editing, based on their ability to efficiently repair the 5' ends of mitochondrial tRNA editing substrates. Although 5'-tRNA editing was discovered nearly two decades ago, the identity of the protein(s) that catalyze this activity has remained elusive. This article provides the first identification of any purified protein that appears to play a role in the 5'-tRNA editing reaction. Moreover, the presence of multiple Thg1 family members in D. discoideum suggests that gene duplication and divergence during evolution has resulted in paralogous proteins that use 3'-5' nucleotide addition reactions for diverse biological functions in the same organism.

Zhuang, N., et al. (2010). "Purification, crystallization and crystallographic analysis of Dictyostelium discoideum phenylalanine hydroxylase in complex with dihydrobiopterin and FeIII." Acta Crystallogr Sect F Struct Biol Cryst Commun 66(Pt 4): 463-466.
	Dictyostelium discoideum phenylalanine hydroxylase (DicPAH; residues 1-415) was expressed in Escherichia coli and purified for structural analysis. Apo DicPAH and DicPAH complexed with dihydrobiopterin (BH(2)) and Fe(III) were crystallized using 0.06 M PIPES pH 7.0, 26%(w/v) PEG 2000 by the hanging-drop vapour-diffusion method. Crystals of apo DicPAH and the DicPAH-BH(2)-Fe(III) complex diffracted to 2.6 and 2.07 A resolution, respectively, and belonged to space group P2(1), with unit-cell parameters a = 70.02, b = 85.43, c = 74.86 A, beta = 110.12 degrees and a = 70.97, b = 85.33, c = 74.89 A, beta = 110.23 degrees , respectively. There were two molecules in the asymmetric unit. The structure of DicPAH has been solved by molecular replacement.

Zhou, Q., et al. (2010). "14-3-3 coordinates microtubules, Rac, and myosin II to control cell mechanics and cytokinesis." Curr Biol 20(21): 1881-1889.
	BACKGROUND: During cytokinesis, regulatory signals are presumed to emanate from the mitotic spindle. However, what these signals are and how they lead to the spatiotemporal changes in the cortex structure, mechanics, and regional contractility are not well understood in any system. RESULTS: To investigate pathways that link the microtubule network to the cortical changes that promote cytokinesis, we used chemical genetics in Dictyostelium to identify genetic suppressors of nocodazole, a microtubule depolymerizer. We identified 14-3-3 and found that it is enriched in the cortex, helps maintain steady-state microtubule length, contributes to normal cortical tension, modulates actin wave formation, and controls the symmetry and kinetics of cleavage furrow contractility during cytokinesis. Furthermore, 14-3-3 acts downstream of a Rac small GTPase (RacE), associates with myosin II heavy chain, and is needed to promote myosin II bipolar thick filament remodeling. CONCLUSIONS: 14-3-3 connects microtubules, Rac, and myosin II to control several aspects of cortical dynamics, mechanics, and cytokinesis cell shape change. Furthermore, 14-3-3 interacts directly with myosin II heavy chain to promote bipolar thick filament remodeling and distribution. Overall, 14-3-3 appears to integrate several critical cytoskeletal elements that drive two important processes-cytokinesis cell shape change and cell mechanics.

Zhang, Y. and V. N. Gladyshev (2010). "General trends in trace element utilization revealed by comparative genomic analyses of Co, Cu, Mo, Ni, and Se." J Biol Chem 285(5): 3393-3405.
	Trace elements are used by all organisms and provide proteins with unique coordination and catalytic and electron transfer properties. Although many trace element-containing proteins are well characterized, little is known about the general trends in trace element utilization. We carried out comparative genomic analyses of copper, molybdenum, nickel, cobalt (in the form of vitamin B(12)), and selenium (in the form of selenocysteine) in 747 sequenced organisms at the following levels: (i) transporters and transport-related proteins, (ii) cofactor biosynthesis traits, and (iii) trace element-dependent proteins. Few organisms were found to utilize all five trace elements, whereas many symbionts, parasites, and yeasts used only one or none of these elements. Investigation of metalloproteomes and selenoproteomes revealed examples of increased utilization of proteins that use copper in land plants, cobalt in Dehalococcoides and Dictyostelium, and selenium in fish and algae, whereas nematodes were found to have great diversity of copper transporters. These analyses also characterized trace element metabolism in common model organisms and suggested new model organisms for experimental studies of individual trace elements. Mismatches in the occurrence of user proteins and corresponding transport systems revealed deficiencies in our understanding of trace element biology. Biological interactions among some trace elements were observed; however, such links were limited, and trace elements generally had unique utilization patterns. Finally, environmental factors, such as oxygen requirement and habitat, correlated with the utilization of certain trace elements. These data provide insights into the general features of utilization and evolution of trace elements in the three domains of life.

Zhang, P., et al. (2010). "Proteomic identification of phosphatidylinositol (3,4,5) triphosphate-binding proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 107(26): 11829-11834.
	Phosphatidylinositol (3,4,5)-triphosphate (PtdInsP(3)) mediates intracellular signaling for directional sensing and pseudopod extension at the leading edge of migrating cells during chemotaxis. How this PtdInsP(3) signal is translated into remodeling of the actin cytoskeleton is poorly understood. Here, using a proteomics approach, we identified multiple PtdInsP(3)-binding proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum, including five pleckstrin homology (PH) domain-containing proteins. Two of these, the serine/threonine kinase Akt/protein kinase B and the PH domain-containing protein PhdA, were previously characterized as PtdInsP(3)-binding proteins. In addition, PhdB, PhdG, and PhdI were identified as previously undescribed PH domain-containing proteins. Specific PtdInsP(3) interactions with PhdB, PhdG, and PhdI were confirmed using an in vitro lipid-binding assay. In cells, PhdI associated with the plasma membrane in a manner dependent on both the PH domain and PtdInsP(3). Consistent with this finding, PhdI located to the leading edge in migrating cells. In contrast, PhdG was found in the cytosol in WT cells. However, when PtdInsP(3) was overproduced in pten(-) cells, PhdG located to the plasma membrane, suggesting its weak affinity for PtdInsP(3). PhdB was found to bind to the plasma membrane via both PtdInsP(3)-dependent and -independent mechanisms. The PtdInsP(3)-independent interaction was mediated by the middle domain, independent of the PH domain. In migrating cells, the majority of PhdB was found at the lagging edge. Finally, we deleted the genes encoding PhdB and PhdG and demonstrated that both proteins are required for efficient chemotaxis. Thus, this study advances our understanding of the PtdInsP(3)-mediated signaling mechanisms that control directed cell migration in chemotaxis.

Zanchi, R., et al. (2010). "The exocytic gene secA is required for Dictyostelium cell motility and osmoregulation." J Cell Sci 123(Pt 19): 3226-3234.
	We investigated the link between cell movement and plasma membrane recycling using a fast-acting, temperature-sensitive mutant of the Dictyostelium SecA exocytic protein. Strikingly, most mutant cells become almost paralysed within minutes at the restrictive temperature. However, they can still sense cyclic-AMP (cAMP) gradients and polymerise actin up-gradient, but form only abortive pseudopodia, which cannot expand. They also relay a cAMP signal normally, suggesting that cAMP is released by a non-exocytic mechanism. To investigate why SecA is required for motility, we examined membrane trafficking in the mutant. Plasma membrane circulation is rapidly inhibited at the restrictive temperature and the cells acquire a prominent vesicle. Organelle-specific markers show that this is an undischarged contractile vacuole, and we found the cells are correspondingly osmo-sensitive. Electron microscopy shows that many smaller vesicles, probably originating from the plasma membrane, also accumulate at the restrictive temperature. Consistent with this, the surface area of mutant cells shrinks. We suggest that SecA mutant cells cannot move at the restrictive temperature because their block in exocytosis results in a net uptake of plasma membrane, reducing its area, and so restricting pseudopodial expansion. This demonstrates the importance of proper surface area regulation in cell movement.

Yoshihara, T., et al. (2010). "Anti-angiogenic effects of differentiation-inducing factor-1 involving VEGFR-2 expression inhibition independent of the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway." Mol Cancer 9: 245.
	BACKGROUND: Differentiation-inducing factor-1 (DIF-1) is a putative morphogen that induces cell differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum. DIF-1 inhibits proliferation of various mammalian tumor cells by suppressing the canonical Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway. To assess the potential of a novel cancer chemotherapy based on the pharmacological effect of DIF-1, we investigated whether DIF-1 exhibits anti-angiogenic effects in vitro and in vivo. RESULTS: DIF-1 not only inhibited the proliferation of human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) by restricting cell cycle in the G0/G1 phase and degrading cyclin D1, but also inhibited the ability of HUVECs to form capillaries and migrate. Moreover, DIF-1 suppressed VEGF- and cancer cell-induced neovascularization in Matrigel plugs injected subcutaneously to murine flank. Subsequently, we attempted to identify the mechanism behind the anti-angiogenic effects of DIF-1. We showed that DIF-1 strongly decreased vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-2 (VEGFR-2) expression in HUVECs by inhibiting the promoter activity of human VEGFR-2 gene, though it was not caused by inhibition of the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway. CONCLUSION: These results suggested that DIF-1 inhibits angiogenesis both in vitro and in vivo, and reduction of VEGFR-2 expression is involved in the mechanism. A novel anti-cancer drug that inhibits neovascularization and tumor growth may be developed by successful elucidation of the target molecules for DIF-1 in the future.

Ye, Q., et al. (2010). "Crystal structure of the alpha-kinase domain of Dictyostelium myosin heavy chain kinase A." Sci Signal 3(111): ra17.
	Dictyostelium discoideum myosin II heavy chain kinase A (MHCK A) disrupts the assembly and cellular activity of bipolar filaments of myosin II by phosphorylating sites within its alpha-helical, coiled-coil tail. MHCK A is a member of the atypical alpha-kinase family of serine and threonine protein kinases and displays no sequence homology to typical eukaryotic protein kinases. We report the crystal structure of the alpha-kinase domain (A-CAT) of MHCK A. When crystallized in the presence of adenosine triphosphate (ATP), A-CAT contained adenosine monophosphate (AMP) at the active site. However, when crystallized in the presence of ATP and a peptide substrate, which does not appear in the structure, adenosine diphosphate (ADP) was found at the active site and an invariant aspartic acid residue (Asp(766)) at the active site was phosphorylated. The aspartylphosphate group was exposed to the solvent within an active-site pocket that might function as a docking site for substrates. Access to the aspartylphosphate was regulated by a conformational switch in a loop that bound to a magnesium ion (Mg(2+)), providing a mechanism that allows alpha-kinases to sense and respond to local changes in Mg(2+).

Yasukawa, H. and K. Yagita (2010). "Silent information regulator 2 proteins encoded by Cryptosporidium parasites." Parasitol Res 107(3): 707-712.
	Screening in a database has revealed that Cryptosporidium hominis encodes a silent information regulator 2 (Sir2), a nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NAD)-dependent protein deacetylase. Cellular localization of the protein, ChSir2, was analyzed by the use of the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum as a model system. Fluorescent microscopic analysis showed that ChSir2 fused with green fluorescent protein was localized in the D. discoideum nucleus. D. discoideum expressing ChSir2 grew faster and reached higher cell density than did D. discoideum harboring a control vector. These results suggest that ChSir2 is a nucleus-localizing protein that plays an important role in the growth of C. hominis. We cloned and sequenced the genes for Sir2 orthologs encoded by three isolates of C. hominis, two isolates of Cryptosporidium parvum and one isolate of Cryptosporidium meleagridis. The orthologs conserve critical catalytic or NAD-binding residues but do not have similarity with human Sir2 proteins (SIRTs). Cryptosporidium Sir2 orthologs would therefore be attractive therapeutic targets. The Cryptosporidium orthologs were classified into four variants based on their nucleotide sequences. Each of the four variants produces its own unique restriction fragment length polymorphism pattern by digestion with TfiI.

Yamada, Y., et al. (2010). "Prespore cell inducing factor, psi factor, controls both prestalk and prespore gene expression in Dictyostelium development." Dev Growth Differ 52(4): 377-383.
	Prespore cell-inducing (psi, psi) factor (PsiA), encoded by the psiA gene of Dictyostelium, is a secreted signal glycoprotein that induces prespore cell differentiation when added to monolayer cultures. In situ hybridization during normal development showed that the psiA gene is highly expressed in scattered cells at the mound stage and in prespore cells at the onset of culmination. The conventional prespore-cell marker genes, cotC and pspA, were expressed normally in psiA(-) and psiA overexpressing strains. Expressions of rnrB and cudA are repressed in the prestalk cells of a wild type slug to render prespore specific pattern. However, a promoter-reporter fusion gene, rnrB:lacZ, showed an ectopic expression in the prestalk cells of the psiA(-) strain while cudA(psp):lacZ did so in those of the psiA overexpressing strain. Overexpression of psiA delayed expression of the prestalk specific gene, ecmB, during development, while knocking out psiA promoted its expression. In addition, overexpression inhibited DIF-1-induced stalk formation in monolayer cultures. Together with the known prespore inducing activity, the results indicate that PsiA regulates both prespore and prestalk/stalk cell differentiation. These results indicate that PsiA is also involved in prestalk cell differentiation.

Yamada, Y., et al. (2010). "A new Dictyostelium prestalk cell sub-type." Dev Biol 339(2): 390-397.
	The mature fruiting body of Dictyostelium consists of stalk and spore cells but its construction, and the migration of the preceding slug stage, requires a number of specialized sub-types of prestalk cell whose nature and function are not well understood. The prototypic prestalk-specific gene, ecmA, is inducible by the polyketide DIF-1 in a monolayer assay and requires the DimB and MybE transcription factors for full inducibility. We perform genome-wide microarray analyses, on parental, mybE- and dimB- cells, and identify many additional genes that depend on MybE and DimB for their DIF-1 inducibility. Surprisingly, an even larger number of genes are only DIF inducible in mybE- cells, some genes are only inducible in DimB- cells and some are inducible when either transcription factor is absent. Thus in assay conditions where MybE and DimB function as inducers of ecmA these genes fall under negative control by the same two transcription factors. We have studied in detail rtaA, one of the MybE and DimB repressed genes. One especially enigmatic group of prestalk cells is the anterior-like cells (ALCs), which exist intermingled with prespore cells in the slug. A promoter fusion reporter gene, rtaA:gal(u), is expressed in a subset of the ALCs that is distinct from the ALC population detected by a reporter construct containing ecmA and ecmB promoter fragments. At culmination, when the ALC sort out from the prespore cells and differentiate to form three ancillary stalk cell structures: the upper cup, the lower cup and the outer basal disk, the rtaA:gal(u) expressing cells preferentially populate the upper cup region. This fact, and their virtual absence from the anterior and posterior regions of the slug, identifies them as a new prestalk sub-type: the pstU cells. PstU cell differentiation is, as expected, increased in a dimB- mutant during normal development but, surprisingly, they differentiate normally in a mutant lacking DIF. Thus genetic removal of MybE or DimB reveals an alternate DIF-1 activation pathway, for pstU differentiation, that functions under monolayer assay conditions but that is not essential during multicellular development.

Xu, X., et al. (2010). "Coupling mechanism of a GPCR and a heterotrimeric G protein during chemoattractant gradient sensing in Dictyostelium." Sci Signal 3(141): ra71.
	The coupling of heterotrimeric guanine nucleotide-binding protein (G protein)-coupled receptors (GPCRs) with G proteins is fundamental for GPCR signaling; however, the mechanism of coupling is still debated. Moreover, how the proposed mechanisms affect the dynamics of downstream signaling remains unclear. Here, through experiments involving fluorescence recovery after photobleaching and single-molecule imaging, we directly measured the mobilities of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) receptor 1 (cAR1), a chemoattractant receptor, and a G protein betagamma subunit in live cells. We found that cAR1 diffused more slowly in the plasma membrane than did Gbetagamma. Upon binding of ligand to the receptor, the mobility of cAR1 was unchanged, whereas the speed of a fraction of the faster-moving Gbetagamma subunits decreased. Our measurements showed that cAR1 was relatively immobile and Gbetagamma diffused freely, suggesting that chemoattractant-bound cAR1 transiently interacted with G proteins. Using models of possible coupling mechanisms, we computed the temporal kinetics of G protein activation. Our fluorescence resonance energy transfer imaging data showed that fully activated cAR1 induced the sustained dissociation of G protein alpha and betagamma subunits, which indicated that ligand-bound cAR1 activated G proteins continuously. Finally, simulations indicated that a high-affinity coupling of ligand-bound receptors and G proteins was essential for cAR1 to translate extracellular gradient signals into directional cellular responses. We suggest that chemoattractant receptors use a ligand-induced coupling rather than a precoupled mechanism to control the activation of G proteins during chemotaxis.

Xiong, Y., et al. (2010). "Automated characterization of cell shape changes during amoeboid motility by skeletonization." BMC Syst Biol 4: 33.
	BACKGROUND: The ability of a cell to change shape is crucial for the proper function of many cellular processes, including cell migration. One type of cell migration, referred to as amoeboid motility, involves alternating cycles of morphological expansion and retraction. Traditionally, this process has been characterized by a number of parameters providing global information about shape changes, which are insufficient to distinguish phenotypes based on local pseudopodial activities that typify amoeboid motility. RESULTS: We developed a method that automatically detects and characterizes pseudopodial behavior of cells. The method uses skeletonization, a technique from morphological image processing to reduce a shape into a series of connected lines. It involves a series of automatic algorithms including image segmentation, boundary smoothing, skeletonization and branch pruning, and takes into account the cell shape changes between successive frames to detect protrusion and retraction activities. In addition, the activities are clustered into different groups, each representing the protruding and retracting history of an individual pseudopod. CONCLUSIONS: We illustrate the algorithms on movies of chemotaxing Dictyostelium cells and show that our method makes it possible to capture the spatial and temporal dynamics as well as the stochastic features of the pseudopodial behavior. Thus, the method provides a powerful tool for investigating amoeboid motility.

Xiong, Y. and P. A. Iglesias (2010). "Tools for analyzing cell shape changes during chemotaxis." Integr Biol (Camb) 2(11-12): 561-567.
	Chemotaxis refers to the ability of cells to sense the direction of external chemical gradients and respond by migrating towards the source. A thorough understanding of the chemotactic response of amoebae and neutrophils requires careful quantification of the cell shape changes observed during cell movement. The stochastic nature of this response calls for a statistical characterization of cellular morphology and this requires the processing of large data sets. For this reason, automatic image analysis algorithms are highly desirable and are becoming increasingly available. These usually include a combination of techniques from image segmentation, morphological transformations, as well as the incorporation of numerical algorithms and physical models. Here we review recent developments in the tracking and understanding of motile chemotaxing cells, with a particular emphasis on the description of pseudopodial activity in chemotactic Dictyostelium cells.

Williams, J. G. (2010). "Dictyostelium finds new roles to model." Genetics 185(3): 717-726.
	Any established or aspiring model organism must justify itself using two criteria: does the model organism offer experimental advantages not offered by competing systems? And will any discoveries made using the model be of wider relevance? This review addresses these issues for the social amoeba Dictyostelium and highlights some of the organisms more recent applications. These cover a remarkably wide gamut, ranging from sociobiological to medical research with much else in between.

Whitney, T. J., et al. (2010). "Identifying the molecular basis of functions in the transcriptome of the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum." Genet Mol Res 9(1): 394-415.
	The unusual life cycle of Dictyostelium discoideum, in which an extra-cellular stressor such as starvation induces the development of a multicellular fruiting body consisting of stalk cells and spores from a culture of identical amoebae, provides an excellent model for investigating the molecular control of differentiation and the transition from single- to multi-cellular life, a key transition in development. We utilized serial analysis of gene expression (SAGE), a molecular method that is unbiased by dependence on previously identified genes, to obtain a transcriptome from a high-density culture of amoebae, in order to examine the transition to multi-cellular development. The SAGE method provides relative expression levels, which allows us to rank order the expressed genes. We found that a large number of ribosomal proteins were expressed at high levels, while various components of the proteosome were expressed at low levels. The only identifiable transmembrane signaling system components expressed in amoebae are related to quorum sensing, and their expression levels were relatively low. The most highly expressed gene in the amoeba transcriptome, dutA untranslated RNA, is a molecule with unknown function that may serve as an inhibitor of translation. These results suggest that high-density amoebae have not initiated development, and they also suggest a mechanism by which the transition into the development program is controlled.

Westendorf, C., et al. (2010). "Live cell flattening - traditional and novel approaches." PMC Biophys 3(1): 9.
	Eukaryotic cell flattening is valuable for improving microscopic observations, ranging from bright field (BF) to total internal reflection fluorescence (TIRF) microscopy. Fundamental processes, such as mitosis and in vivo actin polymerization, have been investigated using these techniques. Here, we review the well known agar overlayer protocol and the oil overlay method. In addition, we present more elaborate microfluidics-based techniques that provide us with a greater level of control. We demonstrate these techniques on the social amoebae Dictyostelium discoideum, comparing the advantages and disadvantages of each method.PACS Codes: 87.64.-t, 47.61.-k, 87.80.Ek.

West, C. M., et al. (2010). "A cytoplasmic prolyl hydroxylation and glycosylation pathway modifies Skp1 and regulates O2-dependent development in Dictyostelium." Biochim Biophys Acta 1800(2): 160-171.
	The soil amoeba Dictyostelium is an obligate aerobe that monitors O(2) for informational purposes in addition to utilizing it for oxidative metabolism. Whereas low O(2) suffices for proliferation, a higher level is required for slugs to culminate into fruiting bodies, and O(2) influences slug polarity, slug migration, and cell-type proportioning. Dictyostelium expresses a cytoplasmic prolyl 4-hydroxylase (P4H1) known to mediate O(2)-sensing in animals, but lacks HIFalpha, a major hydroxylation target whose accumulation directly induces animal hypoxia-dependent transcriptional changes. The O(2)-requirement for culmination is increased by P4H1-gene disruption and reduced by P4H1 overexpression. A target of Dictyostelium P4H1 is Skp1, a subunit of the SCF-class of E3-ubiquitin ligases related to the VBC-class that mediates hydroxylation-dependent degradation of animal HIFalpha. Skp1 is a target of a novel cytoplasmic O-glycosylation pathway that modifies HyPro143 with a pentasaccharide, and glycosyltransferase mutants reveal that glycosylation intermediates have antagonistic effects toward P4H1 in O(2)-signaling. Current evidence indicates that Skp1 is the only glycosylation target in cells, based on metabolic labeling, biochemical complementation, and enzyme specificity studies. Bioinformatics studies suggest that the HyPro-modification pathway existed in the ancestral eukaryotic lineage and was retained in selected modern day unicellular organisms whose life cycles experience varying degrees of hypoxia. It is proposed that, in Dictyostelium and other protists including the agent for human toxoplasmosis Toxoplasma gondii, prolyl hydroxylation and glycosylation mediate O(2)-signaling in hierarchical fashion via Skp1 to control the proteome, directly via degradation rather than indirectly via transcription as found in animals.

Wang, H. Y. and J. G. Williams (2010). "Identification of a target for CudA, the transcription factor which directs formation of the Dictyostelium tip organiser." Int J Dev Biol 54(1): 161-165.
	The tip of the Dictyostelium slug functions much like an embryonic organiser; when grafted onto the flank of a recipient slug, it recruits a mass of prespore cells and leads them away as part of a secondary slug. CudA is a nuclear protein which is expressed in prespore cells where it acts as a specific transcription factor. CudA is also expressed in an anteriorly located group of cells, the tip-organiser, that is believed to constitute the functional tip. We identify an expansin-like gene, expl7, that is expressed within the tip-organiser region and which is not expressed in a cudA null strain. The expl7 promoter contains a region that binds to CudA in vitro and this region is necessary for expression in the tip-organiser. These results provide an end-point for a previously defined signal transduction pathway in which regionalized expression of the ACA adenylyl cyclase within the tip-organiser leads to localised cAMP-induced activation of STATa and consequent binding of STATa to the cudA promoter. STATa then induces expression of cudA and cudA directs the transcription of target genes such as expl7.

Wang, H. Y. and J. G. Williams (2010). "Synergy between two transcription factors directs gene expression in Dictyostelium tip-organiser cells." Int J Dev Biol 54(8-9): 1301-1307.
	cotC requires the transcription factor CudA for its expression in the posterior, prespore cells of the slug, while the expL7 gene requires CudA for its expression in the anterior, tip-organiser region. In order to identify additional transcription factors that might mediate tip-organiser specific expression, we performed affinity chromatography on slug nuclear extracts. The affinity matrix bore cap-site distal sequences from region A of the expL7 promoter; an essential region located upstream of the CudA binding domain. One of the proteins purified was G-box binding factor (GBF), a zinc finger transcription factor which binds to G-rich elements, known as G boxes, that are present in the promoters of many developmental genes, including cotC. Previous work identified an essential sequence motif within region A and we show that this element is a G box, that binds recombinant GBF. Moreover, a G box from within the cotC promoter can substitute for region A of expL7 in directing tip-organiser specific expression of expL7. Thus the same two transcription factors, CudA and GBF, seem to co-operate to direct both tip-organiser and prespore gene expression. How then is specificity achieved? Replacing a CudA binding region in the cotC promoter with the CudA binding domain from expL7 strongly represses cotC promoter activity. Hence we suggest that differences in the topology of the multiple CudA half- sites contained within the two different CudA binding regions, coupled with differences in the signalling environment between tip-organiser cells and prespore cells, ensure correct expL7 expression.

Veltman, D. M. and R. H. Insall (2010). "WASP family proteins: their evolution and its physiological implications." Mol Biol Cell 21(16): 2880-2893.
	WASP family proteins control actin polymerization by activating the Arp2/3 complex. Several subfamilies exist, but their regulation and physiological roles are not well understood, nor is it even known if all subfamilies have been identified. Our extensive search reveals few novel WASP family proteins. The WASP, WASH, and SCAR/WAVE subfamilies are evolutionarily ancient, with WASH the most universally present, whereas WHAMM/JMY first appears in invertebrates. An unusual Dictyostelium WASP homologue that has lost the WH1 domain has retained its function in clathrin-mediated endocytosis, demonstrating that WASPs can function with a remarkably diverse domain topology. The WASH and SCAR/WAVE regulatory complexes are much more rigidly maintained; their domain topology is highly conserved, and all subunits are present or lost together, showing that the complexes are ancient and functionally interdependent. Finally, each subfamily has a distinctive C motif, indicating that this motif plays a specific role in each subfamily's function, unlike the generic V and A motifs. Our analysis identifies which features are universally conserved, and thus essential, and which are branch-specific modifications. It also shows the WASP family is more widespread and diverse than currently appreciated and unexpectedly biases the physiological role of the Arp2/3 complex toward vesicle traffic.

van Hemert, F., et al. (2010). "Mobility of G proteins is heterogeneous and polarized during chemotaxis." J Cell Sci 123(Pt 17): 2922-2930.
	The interaction of G-protein-coupled receptors with G proteins is a key event in transmembrane signal transduction that leads to vital decision-making by the cell. Here, we applied single-molecule epifluorescence microscopy to study the mobility of both the Gbetagamma and the Galpha2 subunits of the G protein heterotrimer in comparison with the cAMP receptor responsible for chemotactic signaling in Dictyostelium discoideum. Our experimental results suggest that approximately 30% of the G protein heterotrimers exist in receptor-precoupled complexes. Upon stimulation in a chemotactic gradient, this complex dissociates, subsequently leading to a linear diffusion and collision amplification of the external signal. We further found that Gbetagamma was partially immobilized and confined in an agonist-, F-actin- and Galpha2-dependent fashion. This led to the hypothesis that functional nanometric domains exist in the plasma membrane, which locally restrict the activation signal, and in turn, lead to faithful and efficient chemotactic signaling.

Van Haastert, P. J. (2010). "A model for a correlated random walk based on the ordered extension of pseudopodia." PLoS Comput Biol 6(8).
	Cell migration in the absence of external cues is well described by a correlated random walk. Most single cells move by extending protrusions called pseudopodia. To deduce how cells walk, we have analyzed the formation of pseudopodia by Dictyostelium cells. We have observed that the formation of pseudopodia is highly ordered with two types of pseudopodia: First, de novo formation of pseudopodia at random positions on the cell body, and therefore in random directions. Second, pseudopod splitting near the tip of the current pseudopod in alternating right/left directions, leading to a persistent zig-zag trajectory. Here we analyzed the probability frequency distributions of the angles between pseudopodia and used this information to design a stochastic model for cell movement. Monte Carlo simulations show that the critical elements are the ratio of persistent splitting pseudopodia relative to random de novo pseudopodia, the Left/Right alternation, the angle between pseudopodia and the variance of this angle. Experiments confirm predictions of the model, showing reduced persistence in mutants that are defective in pseudopod splitting and in mutants with an irregular cell surface.

Van Haastert, P. J. (2010). "A stochastic model for chemotaxis based on the ordered extension of pseudopods." Biophys J 99(10): 3345-3354.
	Many amoeboid cells move by extending pseudopods. Here I present a new stochastic model for chemotaxis that is based on pseudopod extensions by Dictyostelium cells. In the absence of external cues, pseudopod extension is highly ordered with two types of pseudopods: de novo formation of a pseudopod at the cell body in random directions, and alternating right/left splitting of an existing pseudopod that leads to a persistent zig-zag trajectory. We measured the directional probabilities of the extension of splitting and de novo pseudopods in chemoattractant gradients with different steepness. Very shallow cAMP gradients can bias the direction of splitting pseudopods, but the bias is not perfect. Orientation of de novo pseudopods require much steeper cAMP gradients and can be more precise. These measured probabilities of pseudopod directions were used to obtain an analytical model for chemotaxis of cell populations. Measured chemotaxis of wild-type cells and mutants with specific defects in these stochastic pseudopod properties are similar to predictions of the model. These results show that combining splitting and de novo pseudopods is a very effective way for cells to obtain very high sensitivity to stable gradient and still be responsive to changes in the direction of the gradient.

van Egmond, W. N. and P. J. van Haastert (2010). "Characterization of the Roco protein family in Dictyostelium discoideum." Eukaryot Cell 9(5): 751-761.
	The Roco family consists of multidomain Ras-GTPases that include LRRK2, a protein mutated in familial Parkinson's disease. The genome of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum encodes 11 Roco proteins. To study the functions of these proteins, we systematically knocked out the roco genes. Previously described functions for GbpC, Pats1, and QkgA (Roco1 to Roco3) were confirmed, while novel developmental defects were identified in roco4- and roco11-null cells. Cells lacking Roco11 form larger fruiting bodies than wild-type cells, while roco4-null cells show strong developmental defects during the transition from mound to fruiting body; prestalk cells produce reduced levels of cellulose, leading to unstable stalks that are unable to properly lift the spore head. Detailed phylogenetic analysis of four slime mold species reveals that QkgA and Roco11 evolved relatively late by duplication of an ancestor roco4 gene (later than approximately 300 million years ago), contrary to the situation with other roco genes, which were already present before the split of the common ancestor of D. discoideum and Polysphondylium pallidum (before approximately 600 million years ago). Together, our data show that the Dictyostelium Roco proteins serve a surprisingly diverse set of functions and highlight Roco4 as a key protein for proper stalk cell formation.

Vadell, E. M. (2010). "[Dictyostelium. A social amoeba as a model organism]." Medicina (B Aires) 70(4): 389-392.
	
Urwyler, S., et al. (2010). "Isolation of Legionella-containing vacuoles by immuno-magnetic separation." Curr Protoc Cell Biol Chapter 3: Unit 3 34.
	The environmental bacterium Legionella pneumophila naturally parasitizes free-living amoebae. L. pneumophila is an opportunistic human pathogen that grows in macrophages, thus causing a life-threatening pneumonia termed Legionnaires' disease. The bacteria replicate intracellularly in environmental and immune phagocytes within a unique compartment, the Legionella-containing vacuole (LCV). Formation of LCVs is a complex and robust process involving &gt;150 secreted bacterial effector proteins, which are believed to subvert host cell signaling and vesicle trafficking pathways. This unit describes a simple approach to purify intact LCVs from Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae. The method comprises a two-step purification protocol that includes immuno-magnetic separation by means of an antibody against an effector protein specifically binding to LCVs, followed by density gradient centrifugation. The use of D. discoideum producing a fluorescent LCV marker and fluorescently labeled L. pneumophila allow tracking the enrichment of LCVs by light microscopy.

Underwood, J., et al. (2010). "Identification of a new mechanism for targeting myosin II heavy chain phosphorylation by Dictyostelium myosin heavy chain kinase B." BMC Res Notes 3: 56.
	BACKGROUND: Heavy chain phosphorylation plays a central role in regulating myosin II bipolar filament assembly in Dictyostelium, as well as in higher eukaryotic nonmuscle cells. Our previous work has demonstrated that the WD-repeat domain of Dictyostelium myosin II heavy chain kinase B (MHCK-B), unlike its counterpart in MHCK-A, is not absolutely required for targeting of the kinase to phosphorylate MHC. Thus, we tested the hypothesis that an asparagine-rich and structurally disordered region that is unique to MHCK-B can by itself function in substrate targeting. FINDINGS: Biochemical assays comparing the activities of full-length MHCK-B, a truncation lacking only the WD-repeat domain (B-Delta-WD), and a truncation lacking both the N-rich region and the WD-repeat domain (B-Delta-N-WD) revealed that the N-rich region targets MHCK-B to phosphorylate MHC in a manner that leads to bipolar filament disassembly. This targeting is physiologically relevant since cellular over-expression of the B-Delta-WD truncation, but not the B-Delta-N-WD truncation, leads to dramatically reduced levels of myosin II filament assembly and associated defects in cytokinesis and multicellular development. CONCLUSIONS: The results presented here demonstrate that an intrinsically unstructured, and asparagine-rich, region of a MHCK-B can mediate specific targeting of the kinase to phosphorylate myosin II heavy chain. This targeting involves a direct binding interaction with myosin II filaments. In terms of regulating myosin bipolar filament assembly, our results suggest that factors affecting the activity of this unique region of MHCK-B could allow for regulation of MHCK-B in a manner that is distinct from the other MHCKs in Dictyostelium.

Tung, S. M., et al. (2010). "Loss of Dictyostelium ATG9 results in a pleiotropic phenotype affecting growth, development, phagocytosis and clearance and replication of Legionella pneumophila." Cell Microbiol 12(6): 765-780.
	Infection of Dictyostelium discoideum with Legionella pneumophila resulted in a large number of differentially regulated genes among them three core autophagy genes, ATG8, ATG9 and ATG16. Macroautophagy contributes to many physiological and pathological processes and might also constitute an important mechanism in cell-autonomous immunity. For further studies we selected the highly conserved ATG9. In colocalization studies with GFP-tagged ATG9 and different organelle marker proteins we neither observed colocalization with mitochondria, the ER nor lysosomes. However, there was partial colocalization with the Golgi apparatus and many ATG9-GFP-containing vesicles localized along microtubules and accumulated around the microtubule organizing centre. ATG9-deficient cells had pleiotropic defects. In addition to growth defects they displayed severe developmental defects, consistent with the known role of autophagy in Dictyostelium development. Unexpectedly, the ATG9 mutant also had a strong phagocytosis defect that was particularly apparent when infecting the cells with L. pneumophila. However, those Legionellae that entered the host could multiply better in mutant than in wild-type cells, because of a less efficient clearance in the early and a more efficient replication in the late phase of infection. We conclude that ATG9 and hence macroautophagy has a protective role during pathogen infection.

Traylor-Knowles, N., et al. (2010). "The evolutionary diversification of LSF and Grainyhead transcription factors preceded the radiation of basal animal lineages." BMC Evol Biol 10: 101.
	BACKGROUND: The transcription factors of the LSF/Grainyhead (GRH) family are characterized by the possession of a distinctive DNA-binding domain that bears no clear relationship to other known DNA-binding domains, with the possible exception of the p53 core domain. In triploblastic animals, the LSF and GRH subfamilies have diverged extensively with respect to their biological roles, general expression patterns, and mechanism of DNA binding. For example, Grainyhead (GRH) homologs are expressed primarily in the epidermis, and they appear to play an ancient role in maintaining the epidermal barrier. By contrast, LSF homologs are more widely expressed, and they regulate general cellular functions such as cell cycle progression and survival in addition to cell-lineage specific gene expression. RESULTS: To illuminate the early evolution of this family and reconstruct the functional divergence of LSF and GRH, we compared homologs from 18 phylogenetically diverse taxa, including four basal animals (Nematostella vectensis, Vallicula multiformis, Trichoplax adhaerens, and Amphimedon queenslandica), a choanoflagellate (Monosiga brevicollis) and several fungi. Phylogenetic and bioinformatic analyses of these sequences indicate that (1) the LSF/GRH gene family originated prior to the animal-fungal divergence, and (2) the functional diversification of the LSF and GRH subfamilies occurred prior to the divergence between sponges and eumetazoans. Aspects of the domain architecture of LSF/GRH proteins are well conserved between fungi, choanoflagellates, and metazoans, though within the Metazoa, the LSF and GRH families are clearly distinct. We failed to identify a convincing LSF/GRH homolog in the sequenced genomes of the algae Volvox carteri and Chlamydomonas reinhardtii or the amoebozoan Dictyostelium purpureum. Interestingly, the ancestral GRH locus has become split into two separate loci in the sea anemone Nematostella, with one locus encoding a DNA binding domain and the other locus encoding the dimerization domain. CONCLUSIONS: In metazoans, LSF and GRH proteins play a number of roles that are essential to achieving and maintaining multicellularity. It is now clear that this protein family already existed in the unicellular ancestor of animals, choanoflagellates, and fungi. However, the diversification of distinct LSF and GRH subfamilies appears to be a metazoan invention. Given the conserved role of GRH in maintaining epithelial integrity in vertebrates, insects, and nematodes, it is noteworthy that the evolutionary origin of Grh appears roughly coincident with the evolutionary origin of the epithelium.

Tovy, A., et al. (2010). "In vitro tRNA methylation assay with the Entamoeba histolytica DNA and tRNA methyltransferase Dnmt2 (Ehmeth) enzyme." J Vis Exp(44).
	Protozoan parasites are among the most devastating infectious agents of humans responsible for a variety of diseases including amebiasis, which is one of the three most common causes of death from parasitic disease. The agent of amebiasis is the amoeba parasite Entamoeba histolytica that exists under two stages: the infective cyst found in food or water and the invasive trophozoite living in the intestine. The clinical manifestations of amebiasis range from being asymptomatic to colitis, dysentery or liver abscesses. E. histolytica is one of the rare unicellular parasite with 5-methylcytosine (5mC) in its genome. It contains a single DNA methyltransferase, Ehmeth, that belongs to the Dnmt2 family. A role for Dnmt2 in the control of repetitive elements has been established in E. histolytica, Dictyostelium discoideum and Drosophila. Our recent work has shown that Ehmeth methylates tRNA(Asp), and this finding indicates that this enzyme has a dual DNA/tRNA(Asp) methyltransferase activity. This observation is in agreement with the dual activity that has been reported for D. discoideum and D. melanogaster. The functional significance of the DNA/tRNA specificity of Dnmt2 enzymes is still unknown. To address this question, a method to determine the tRNA methyltransferase activity of Dnmt2 proteins was established. In this video, we describe a straightforward approach to prepare an adequate tRNA substrate for Dnmt2 and a method to measure its tRNA methyltransferase activity.

Teo, R., et al. (2010). "Glycogen synthase kinase-3 is required for efficient Dictyostelium chemotaxis." Mol Biol Cell 21(15): 2788-2796.
	Glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK3) is a highly conserved protein kinase that is involved in several important cell signaling pathways and is associated with a range of medical conditions. Previous studies indicated a major role of the Dictyostelium homologue of GSK3 (gskA) in cell fate determination during morphogenesis of the fruiting body; however, transcriptomic and proteomic studies have suggested that GSK3 regulates gene expression much earlier during Dictyostelium development. To investigate a potential earlier role of GskA, we examined the effects of loss of gskA on cell aggregation. We find that cells lacking gskA exhibit poor chemotaxis toward cAMP and folate. Mutants fail to activate two important regulatory signaling pathways, mediated by phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate (PIP(3)) and target of rapamycin complex 2 (TORC2), which in combination are required for chemotaxis and cAMP signaling. These results indicate that GskA is required during early stages of Dictyostelium development, in which it is necessary for both chemotaxis and cell signaling.

Tanaka, T., et al. (2010). "Expression, identification and purification of Dictyostelium acetoacetyl-coa thiolase expressed in Escherichia coli." Int J Biol Sci 7(1): 9-17.
	Acetoacetyl-CoA thiolase (AT) is an enzyme that catalyses the CoA-dependent thiolytic cleavage of acetoacetyl-CoA to yield 2 molecules of acetyl-CoA, or the reverse condensation reaction. A full-length cDNA clone pBSGT-3, which has homology to known thiolases, was isolated from Dictyostelium cDNA library. Expression of the protein encoded in pBSGT-3 in Escherichia coli, its thiolase enzyme activity, and the amino acid sequence homology search revealed that pBSGT-3 encodes an AT. The recombinant AT (r-thiolase) was expressed in an active form in an E. coli expression system, and purified to homogeneity by selective ammonium sulfate fractionation and two steps of column chromatography. The purified enzyme exhibited a specific activity of 4.70 mU/mg protein. Its N-terminal sequence was (NH)-Arg-Met-Tyr-Thr-Thr-Ala-Lys-Asn-Leu-Glu-, which corresponds to the sequence from positions 15 to 24 of the amino acid sequence deduced from pBSGT-3 clone. The r-thiolase in the inclusion body expressed highly in E. coli was the precursor form, which is slightly larger than the purified r-thiolase. When incubated with the cell-free extract of Dictyostelium cells, the precursor was converted to the same size to the purified r-thiolase, suggesting that the presequence at the N-terminus is removed by a Dictyostelium processing peptidase.

Swaney, K. F., et al. (2010). "Eukaryotic chemotaxis: a network of signaling pathways controls motility, directional sensing, and polarity." Annu Rev Biophys 39: 265-289.
	Chemotaxis, the directed migration of cells in chemical gradients, is a vital process in normal physiology and in the pathogenesis of many diseases. Chemotactic cells display motility, directional sensing, and polarity. Motility refers to the random extension of pseudopodia, which may be driven by spontaneous actin waves that propagate through the cytoskeleton. Directional sensing is mediated by a system that detects temporal and spatial stimuli and biases motility toward the gradient. Polarity gives cells morphologically and functionally distinct leading and lagging edges by relocating proteins or their activities selectively to the poles. By exploiting the genetic advantages of Dictyostelium, investigators are working out the complex network of interactions between the proteins that have been implicated in the chemotactic processes of motility, directional sensing, and polarity.

Surcel, A., et al. (2010). "Cytokinesis through biochemical-mechanical feedback loops." Semin Cell Dev Biol 21(9): 866-873.
	Cytokinesis is emerging as a control system defined by interacting biochemical and mechanical modules, which form a system of feedback loops. This integrated system accounts for the regulation and kinetics of cytokinesis furrowing and demonstrates that cytokinesis is a whole-cell process in which the global and equatorial cortices and cytoplasm are active players in the system. Though originally defined in Dictyostelium, features of the control system are recognizable in other organisms, suggesting a universal mechanism for cytokinesis regulation and contractility.

Sun, S. X., et al. (2010). "Cytoskeletal cross-linking and bundling in motor-independent contraction." Curr Biol 20(15): R649-654.
	Eukaryotic and prokaryotic cells use cytoskeletal proteins to regulate and modify cell shape. During cytokinesis or eukaryotic cell crawling, contractile forces are generated inside the cell to constrict the division site or to haul the rear of the cell forward, respectively. In many cases, these forces have been attributed to the activity of molecular motors, such as myosin II, which, by pulling on actin filaments, can produce contraction of the actin cytoskeleton. However, prokaryotic division is driven by the tubulin-like protein FtsZ and does not seem to require additional molecular motors to constrict the division site. Likewise, Dictyostelium discoideum and Saccharomyces cerevisiae can perform cytokinesis under motor-free conditions. In addition, many crawling cells can translocate when myosin is inhibited or absent. In this review, we point out another force-generation mechanism that can play a significant role in driving these processes in eukaryotes and prokaryotes. This mechanism is mediated by cross-linking and bundling proteins that form effective interactions between cytoskeletal filaments. Some recent studies in this area are reviewed and the physical underpinnings of this force-generation mechanism are explained.

Sugden, C., et al. (2010). "Two novel Src homology 2 domain proteins interact to regulate dictyostelium gene expression during growth and early development." J Biol Chem 285(30): 22927-22935.
	There are 13 Dictyostelium Src homology 2 (SH2) domain proteins, almost 10-fold fewer than in mammals, and only three are functionally unassigned. One of these, LrrB, contains a novel combination of protein interaction domains: an SH2 domain and a leucine-rich repeat domain. Growth and early development appear normal in the mutant, but expression profiling reveals that three genes active at these stages are greatly underexpressed: the ttdA metallohydrolase, the abcG10 small molecule transporter, and the cinB esterase. In contrast, the multigene family encoding the lectin discoidin 1 is overexpressed in the disruptant strain. LrrB binds to 14-3-3 protein, and the level of binding is highest during growth and decreases during early development. Comparative tandem affinity purification tagging shows that LrrB also interacts, via its SH2 domain and in a tyrosine phosphorylation-dependent manner, with two novel proteins: CldA and CldB. Both of these proteins contain a Clu domain, a &gt;200-amino acid sequence present within highly conserved eukaryotic proteins required for correct mitochondrial dispersal. A functional interaction of LrrB with CldA is supported by the fact that a cldA disruptant mutant also underexpresses ttdA, abcG10, and cinB. Significantly, CldA is itself one of the three functionally unassigned SH2 domain proteins. Thus, just as in metazoa, but on a vastly reduced numerical scale, an interacting network of SH2 domain proteins regulates specific Dictyostelium gene expression.

Stamatopoulou, V., et al. (2010). "Domain architecture of the DRpp29 protein and its interaction with the RNA subunit of Dictyostelium discoideum RNase P." Biochemistry 49(50): 10714-10727.
	Dictyostelium discoideum nuclear RNase P is a ribonucleoprotein complex that displays similarities with its counterparts from higher eukaryotes such as the human enzyme, but at the same time it retains distinctive characteristics. In the present study, we report the molecular cloning and interaction details of DRpp29 and RNase P RNA, two subunits of the RNase P holoenzyme from D. discoideum. Electrophoretic mobility shift assays exhibited that DRpp29 binds specifically to the RNase P RNA subunit, a feature that was further confirmed by the molecular modeling of the DRpp29 structure. Moreover, deletion mutants of DRpp29 were constructed in order to investigate the domains of DRpp29 that contribute to and/or are responsible for the direct interaction with the D. discoideum RNase P RNA. A eukaryotic specific, lysine- and arginine-rich region was revealed, which seems to facilitate the interaction between these two subunits. Furthermore, we tested the ability of wild-type and mutant DRpp29 to form active RNase P enzymatic particles with the Escherichia coli RNase P RNA.

Socol, M., et al. (2010). "Synchronization of Dictyostelium discoideum adhesion and spreading using electrostatic forces." Bioelectrochemistry 79(2): 198-210.
	Synchronization of cell spreading is valuable for the study of molecular events involved in the formation of adhesive contacts with the substrate. At a low ionic concentration (0.17 mM) Dictyostelium discoideum cells levitate over negatively charged surfaces due to electrostatic repulsion. First, a two-chamber device, divided by a porous membrane, allows to quickly increase the ionic concentration around the levitating cells. In this way, a good synchronization was obtained, the onsets of cell spreading being separated by less than 5 s. Secondly applying a high potential pulse (2.5 V/Ref, 0.1s) to an Indium Tin Oxide surface attracts the cells toward the surface where they synchronously spread as monitored by LimE(Deltacoil)-GFP. During spreading, actin polymerizes in series of active spots. On average, the first spot appears 8-11s after the electric pulse and the next ones appear regularly, separated by about 10s. Synchronized actin-polymerization activity continues for 40s. Using an electric pulse to control the exact time point at which cells contact the surface has allowed for the first time to quantify the cellular response time for actin polymerization. Electrochemical synchronization is therefore a valuable tool to study intracellular responses to contact.

Smith, T. S., et al. (2010). "Copine A plays a role in the differentiation of stalk cells and the initiation of culmination in Dictyostelium development." BMC Dev Biol 10: 59.
	BACKGROUND: Copines are calcium-dependent phospholipid-binding proteins found in diverse eukaryotic organisms. We are studying the function of copines in Dictyostelium discoideum, a single-celled amoeba that undergoes cell differentiation and morphogenesis to form multicellular fruiting bodies when placed in starvation conditions. Previously, we showed that Dictyostelium cells lacking the copine A (cpnA) gene are not able to complete the developmental cycle, arresting at the slug stage. The aim of this study is to further characterize the developmental defect of the cpnA- cells. RESULTS: Time-lapse imaging revealed that cpnA- cells exhibited delayed aggregation and made large mounds that formed one large slug as compared to the smaller slugs of the wild-type cells. While the prespore cell patterning appeared to be normal within the cpnA- slugs, the prestalk cell patterning was different from wild-type. When cpnA- cells were mixed with a small percentage of wild-type cells, chimeric fruiting bodies with short stalks formed. When a small percentage of cpnA- cells was mixed with wild-type cells, the cpnA- cells labeled with GFP were found located throughout the chimeric slug and in both the stalk and sporehead of the fruiting bodies. However, there appeared to be a small bias towards cpnA- cells becoming spore cells. When cpnA- cells were developed in buffer containing EGTA, they were also able to differentiate into either stalk or spore cells to form fruiting bodies with short stalks. CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicate that CpnA is involved in the regulation of aggregation, slug size, and culmination during Dictyostelium development. More specifically, CpnA appears to be involved in the function and differentiation of prestalk cells and plays a role in a calcium-regulated signaling pathway critical to triggering the initiation of culmination.

Smith, E. W., et al. (2010). "Effect of starvation on the endocytic pathway in Dictyostelium cells." Eukaryot Cell 9(3): 387-392.
	Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae have been used extensively to study the structure and dynamics of the endocytic pathway. Here, we show that while the general structure of the endocytic pathway is maintained in starved cells, its dynamics rapidly slow down. In addition, analysis of apm3 and lvsB mutants reveals that the functional organization of the endocytic pathway is profoundly modified upon starvation. Indeed, in these mutant cells, some of the defects observed in rich medium persist in starved cells, notably an abnormally slow transfer of endocytosed material between endocytic compartments. Other parameters, such as endocytosis of the fluid phase or the rate of fusion of postlysosomes to the cell surface, vary dramatically upon starvation. Studying the endocytic pathway in starved cells can provide a different perspective, allowing the primary (invariant) defects resulting from specific mutations to be distinguished from their secondary (conditional) consequences.

Skoge, M., et al. (2010). "Gradient sensing in defined chemotactic fields." Integr Biol (Camb) 2(11-12): 659-668.
	Cells respond to a variety of secreted molecules by modifying their physiology, growth patterns, and behavior. Motile bacteria and eukaryotic cells can sense extracellular chemoattractants and chemorepellents and alter their movement. In this way fibroblasts and leukocytes can find their way to sites of injury and cancer cells can home in on sites that are releasing growth factors. Social amoebae such as Dictyostelium are chemotactic to cAMP which they secrete several hours after they have initiated development. These eukaryotic cells are known to be able to sense extremely shallow gradients but the processes underlying their exquisite sensitivity are still largely unknown. In this study we determine the responses of developed cells of Dictyostelium discoideum to stable linear gradients of cAMP of varying steepness generated in 2 mum deep gradient chambers of microfluidic devices. The gradients are generated by molecular diffusion between two 80 mum deep flow-through channels, one of which is perfused with a solution of cAMP and the other with buffer, serving as continuously replenished source and sink. These low ceiling gradient chambers constrained the cells in the vertical dimension, facilitating confocal imaging, such that subcellular localization of fluorescently tagged proteins could be followed for up to 30 min without noticeable phototoxicity. Chemotactic cells enter these low ceiling chambers by flattening and elongating and then move almost as rapidly as unconstrained cells. By following the localization of activated Ras (RasGTP) using a Ras Binding Domain fused to Green Fluorescent Protein (RBD-GFP), we observed the rapid appearance of membrane associated patches at the tips of pseudopods. These patches remained associated with pseudopods while they continued to extend but were rapidly disassembled when pseudopods stalled and the cell moved past them. Likewise, fluorescence associated with localized RasGTP rapidly disappeared when the gradient was turned off. Correlation of the size and persistence of RasGTP patches with extension of pseudopods may set the rules for understanding how the signal transduction mechanisms convert a weak external signal to a strong directional bias.

Singh, D., et al. (2010). "Human spleen tyrosine kinase (Syk) recombinant expression systems for high-throughput assays." Biotechnol J 5(2): 201-212.
	Spleen tyrosine kinase (Syk) is an important non-receptor tyrosine kinase and its aberrant regulation is associated with a variety of allergic disorders and autoimmune diseases. To identify small molecule inhibitors of Syk in high-throughput assays, recombinant Syk protein is needed in bulk quantity. We studied the expression of recombinant human Syk in three heterologous systems: E. coli, baculovirus expression vector system (BEVS), and the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum (Dd). Syk activity was higher in the BEVS as compared to the Dd expression host, whereas in E. coli, no activity was observed under our assay conditions. Purified Syk kinase domain protein from BEVS showed concentration dependent inhibition with OXSI-2, a known Syk inhibitor. Molecular modeling and docking studies were performed to understand the binding mode and critical interactions of the inhibitor with catalytic domain of Syk. The BEVS generated Syk kinase domain showed stability upon multiple freeze-thaw cycles and exhibited significantly higher levels of tyrosine phosphorylation at pTyr(525)/Tyr(526) in the Syk activation loop. Based on our data, we conclude that BEVS is the ideal host to produce an active and stable enzyme, which can be successfully employed for screening of Syk inhibitors in a high-throughput system.

Shu, S., et al. (2010). "Expression of Y53A-actin in Dictyostelium disrupts the cytoskeleton and inhibits intracellular and intercellular chemotactic signaling." J Biol Chem 285(36): 27713-27725.
	We showed previously that phosphorylation of Tyr(53), or its mutation to Ala, inhibits actin polymerization in vitro with formation of aggregates of short filaments, and that expression of Y53A-actin in Dictyostelium blocks differentiation and development at the mound stage (Liu, X., Shu, S., Hong, M. S., Levine, R. L., and Korn, E. D. (2006) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 103, 13694-13699; Liu, X., Shu, S., Hong, M. S., Yu, B., and Korn, E. D. (2010) J. Biol. Chem. 285, 9729-9739). We now show that expression of Y53A-actin, which does not affect cell growth, phagocytosis, or pinocytosis, inhibits the formation of head-to-tail cell streams during cAMP-induced aggregation, although individual amoebae chemotax normally. We show that expression of Y53A-actin causes a 50% reduction of cell surface cAMP receptors, and inhibits cAMP-induced increases in adenylyl cyclase A activity, phosphorylation of ERK2, and actin polymerization. Trafficking of vesicles containing adenylyl cyclase A to the rear of the cell and secretion of the ACA vesicles are also inhibited. The actin cytoskeleton of cells expressing Y53A-actin is characterized by numerous short filaments, and bundled and aggregated filaments similar to the structures formed by copolymerization of purified Y53A-actin and wild-type actin in vitro. This disorganized actin cytoskeleton may be responsible for the inhibition of intracellular and intercellular cAMP signaling in cells expressing F-Y53A-actin.

Shina, M. C., et al. (2010). "A Coronin7 homolog with functions in actin-driven processes." J Biol Chem 285(12): 9249-9261.
	Dictyostelium discoideum Coronin7 (DdCRN7) together with human Coronin7 (CRN7) and Pod-1 of Drosophila melanogaster and Caenorhabditis elegans belong to the coronin family of WD-repeat domain-containing proteins. Coronin7 proteins are characterized by two WD-repeat domains that presumably fold into two beta-propeller structures. DdCRN7 shares highest homology with human CRN7, a protein with roles in membrane trafficking. DdCRN7 is present in the cytosol and accumulates in cell surface projections during movement and phago- and pinocytosis. Cells lacking CRN7 have altered chemotaxis and phagocytosis. Furthermore, loss of CRN7 affects the infection process by the pathogen Legionella pneumophila and allows a more efficient internalization of bacteria. To provide a mechanism for CNR7 action, we studied actin-related aspects. We could show that CRN7 binds directly to F-actin and protects actin filaments from depolymerization. CRN7 also associated with F-actin in vivo. It was present in the Triton X-100-insoluble cytoskeleton, colocalized with F-actin, and its distribution was sensitive to drugs affecting the actin cytoskeleton. We propose that the CRN7 role in chemotaxis and phagocytosis is through its effect on the actin cytoskeleton.

Shina, M. C., et al. (2010). "A cytohesin homolog in Dictyostelium amoebae." PLoS One 5(2): e9378.
	BACKGROUND: Dictyostelium, an amoeboid motile cell, harbors several paralogous Sec7 genes that encode members of three distinct subfamilies of the Sec7 superfamily of Guanine nucleotide exchange factors. Among them are proteins of the GBF/BIG family present in all eukaryotes. The third subfamily represented with three members in D. discoideum is the cytohesin family that has been thought to be metazoan specific. Cytohesins are characterized by a Sec7 PH tandem domain and have roles in cell adhesion and migration. PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Dictyostelium SecG exhibits highest homologies to the cytohesins. It harbors at its amino terminus several ankyrin repeats that are followed by the Sec7 PH tandem domain. Mutants lacking SecG show reduced cell-substratum adhesion whereas cell-cell adhesion that is important for development is not affected. Accordingly, multicellular development proceeds normally in the mutant. During chemotaxis secG(-) cells elongate and migrate in a directed fashion towards cAMP, however speed is moderately reduced. SIGNIFICANCE: The data indicate that SecG is a relevant factor for cell-substrate adhesion and reveal the basic function of a cytohesin in a lower eukaryote.

Shimada, N., et al. (2010). "SunB, a novel Sad1 and UNC-84 domain-containing protein required for development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev Growth Differ 52(7): 577-590.
	A gene, sunB, encoding a novel class of Sad1 and UNC-84 (SUN) domain, was isolated from a cDNA screen for suppressors of a mutation in Dd-STATa - a Dictyostelium homologue of metazoan STAT (signal transducers and activators of transcription). The SunB protein localized in the area around the nucleus in growing cells, but in the multicellular stages it was predominantly found in prespore vacuoles (PSVs). A disruptant of sunB was multinucleated in the vegetative phase; during development it formed mounds with multiple tips and failed to culminate. The mutation was cell autonomous, and showed reduced expression of the prespore marker gene pspA and elevated expression of marker genes for prestalk AB cells. Interestingly, the level of SunB was abnormally high in the prestalk cells of Dd-STATa mutants, which are defective in culmination. We conclude that SunB is essential for accurate prestalk/prespore differentiation during Dictyostelium development and that its cell-type dependent localization is regulated by a Dd-STATa-mediated signaling pathway.

Scherer, A., et al. (2010). "Ca2+ chemotaxis in Dictyostelium discoideum." J Cell Sci 123(Pt 21): 3756-3767.
	Using a newly developed microfluidic chamber, we have demonstrated in vitro that Ca(2+) functions as a chemoattractant of aggregation-competent Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae, that parallel spatial gradients of cAMP and Ca(2+) are more effective than either alone, and that cAMP functions as a stronger chemoattractant than Ca(2+). Effective Ca(2+) gradients are extremely steep compared with effective cAMP gradients. This presents a paradox because there is no indication to date that steep Ca(2+) gradients are generated in aggregation territories. However, given that Ca(2+) chemotaxis is co-acquired with cAMP chemotaxis during development, we speculate on the role that Ca(2+) chemotaxis might have and the possibility that steep, transient Ca(2+) gradients are generated during natural aggregation in the interstitial regions between cells.

Saxer, G., et al. (2010). "Cheating does not explain selective differences at high and low relatedness in a social amoeba." BMC Evol Biol 10: 76.
	BACKGROUND: Altruism can be favored by high relatedness among interactants. We tested the effect of relatedness in experimental populations of the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum, where altruism occurs in a starvation-induced social stage when some amoebae die to form a stalk that lifts the fertile spores above the soil facilitating dispersal. The single cells that aggregate during the social stage can be genetically diverse, which can lead to conflict over spore and stalk allocation. We mixed eight genetically distinct wild isolates and maintained twelve replicated populations at a high and a low relatedness treatment. After one and ten social generations we assessed the strain composition of the populations. We expected that some strains would be out-competed in both treatments. In addition, we expected that low relatedness might allow the persistence of social cheaters as it provides opportunity to exploit other strains. RESULTS: We found that at high relatedness a single clone prevailed in all twelve populations. At low relatedness three clones predominated in all twelve populations. Interestingly, exploitation of some clones by others in the social stage did not explain the results. When we mixed each winner against the pool of five losers, the winner did not prevail in the spores because all contributed fairly to the stalk and spores. Furthermore, the dominant clone at high-relatedness was not cheated by the other two that persisted at low relatedness. A combination of high spore production and short unicellular stage most successfully explained the three successful clones at low relatedness, but not why one of them fared better at high relatedness. Differences in density did not account for the results, as the clones did not differ in vegetative growth rates nor did they change the growth rates over relevant densities. CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that social competition and something beyond solitary growth differences occurs during the vegetative stage when amoebae eat bacteria and divide by binary fission. The high degree of repeatability of our results indicates that these effects are strong and points to the importance of new approaches to studying interactions in D. discoideum.

Sathe, S., et al. (2010). "Genetic heterogeneity in wild isolates of cellular slime mold social groups." Microb Ecol 60(1): 137-148.
	This study addresses the issues of spatial distribution, dispersal, and genetic heterogeneity in social groups of the cellular slime molds (CSMs). The CSMs are soil amoebae with an unusual life cycle that consists of alternating solitary and social phases. Because the social phase involves division of labor with what appears to be an extreme form of "altruism", the CSMs raise interesting evolutionary questions regarding the origin and maintenance of sociality. Knowledge of the genetic structure of social groups in the wild is necessary for answering these questions. We confirm that CSMs are widespread in undisturbed forest soil from South India. They are dispersed over long distances via the dung of a variety of large mammals. Consistent with this mode of dispersal, most social groups in the two species examined for detailed study, Dictyostelium giganteum and Dictyostelium purpureum, are multi-clonal.

Samereier, M., et al. (2010). "Live cell-imaging techniques for analyses of microtubules in Dictyostelium." Methods Cell Biol 97: 341-357.
	Dictyostelium amoebae provide a popular model system for analyses of cell and cytoskeletal dynamics. Yet, the sensitivity of Dictyostelium cells to phototoxic effects, their rapid cell movement, and the extraordinary motility of their microtubule system are specific challenges for live cell imaging. The protocols outlined in this chapter are optimized to minimize these challenges, using Dictyostelium cells expressing green fluorescent tubulin or microtubule plus-end markers such as TACC. We describe suitable specimen preparations, treatments with microtubule-depolymerizing drugs, and applicable settings on wide-field and confocal microscopy systems for four-dimensional time-lapse and fluorescence recovery after photobleaching analyses of microtubule dynamics.

Romeralo, M., et al. (2010). "A fully resolved phylogeny of the social amoebas (Dictyostelia) based on combined SSU and ITS rDNA sequences." Protist 161(4): 539-548.
	The dictyostelids possess a complex life cycle including aggregative and multicellular stages. They also include one of the most widely studied protistan model organisms, Dictyostelium discoideum. The current molecular phylogeny of dictyostelids is based largely on SSU (18S) rDNA sequences and shows a deep taxon consisting of four major groups, none of which correspond to the three traditional morphologically-defined genera. However, due to the generally slowly evolving nature of SSU rDNA, these data fail to resolve the majority of branches within the four groups. Given the highly morphologically mixed nature of the dictyostelid groups, it is important to resolve relationships within them. We have determined sequences for the internal transcribed spacers (ITS) of rDNA for nearly all species in the original dictyostelid global phylogeny. Phylogenetic analyses of these data, in combination with the previously determined SSU rDNA sequences, confidently resolve nearly all branches in the tree. This now fully resolved phylogeny confirms the utility of ITS for dictyostelid systematics and lays the ground work for further evolutionary study of the group.

Romeralo, M., et al. (2010). "Two new species of dictyostelid cellular slime molds from Alaska." Mycologia 102(3): 588-595.
	In sampling soils to survey dictyostelid cellular slime molds in Alaska we encountered two groups of isolates that have morphologies that differ from any previously described species within their group. We sequenced the nuclear small subunit ribosomal RNA gene (SSU rDNA) of selected isolates from the two groups and found sequences from both groups to be distinct from all previously described dictyostelid sequences. Phylogenetic analyses place one novel species in dictyostelid Group 2 and the other in Group 4 (Schaap et al. 2006). In this paper we formally describe as new these two species of cellular slime molds, Dictyostelium ammophilum sp. nov. and Dictyostelium boreale sp. nov., based on the combination of morphological and molecular characters.

Rollins, A. W., et al. (2010). "Dictyostelid cellular slime molds associated with grasslands of the central and western United States." Mycologia 102(5): 996-1003.
	Dictyostelid cellular slime molds (dictyostelids) associated with grassland ecosystems of the central and western United States were investigated at nine sites that included examples of the three major ecological types of grasslands (tall grass, mixed grass and short grass) generally recognized for the region. Samples of soil/humus collected from each site were examined with the Cavender method of isolating dictyostelids. For each of those six sites with well developed gallery forests present, an additional set of forest soil/humus samples was collected. A more intensive sampling effort was carried out at one site (Konza LTER) to assess the possible effects of burning and grazing on dictyostelid diversity and density. Twelve species of dictyostelids were recovered from grassland sites, whereas gallery forest sites yielded only nine species. Four cosmopolitan species (Dictyostelium giganteum, D. mucoroides, D. sphaerocephalum and Polysphondylium pallidum) were represented by the greatest densities of clones, with D. sphaerocephalum particularly common. The general pattern across all sites was that both species richness and density of dictyostelids decreased with decreasing precipitation. Samples collected from ungrazed grassland plots yielded higher numbers of both species and clones as compared to grazed plots, and the general pattern was for both values to increase as the interval between fires increased. For numbers of clones this correlation was statistically significant.

Robinson, D. N. (2010). "14-3-3, an integrator of cell mechanics and cytokinesis." Small GTPases 1(3): 165-169.
	One of the goals of understanding cytokinesis is to uncover the molecular regulation of the cellular mechanical properties that drive cell shape change. Such regulatory pathways are likely to be used at multiple stages of a cell's life, but are highly featured during cell division. Recently, we demonstrated that 14-3-3 (encoded by a single gene in the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum) serves to integrate key cytoskeletal components-microtubules, Rac and myosin II-to control cell mechanics and cytokinesis. As 14-3-3 proteins are frequently altered in a variety of human tumors, we extend these observations to suggest possible additional roles for how 14-3-3 proteins may contribute to tumorigenesis.

Reddy, A. K., et al. (2010). "Dictyostelium polycephalum infection of human cornea." Emerg Infect Dis 16(10): 1644-1645.
	
Raisley, B., et al. (2010). "G{alpha}5 subunit-mediated signalling requires a D-motif and the MAPK ERK1 in Dictyostelium." Microbiology 156(Pt 3): 789-797.
	The Dictyostelium Galpha5 subunit has been shown to reduce cell viability, inhibit folate chemotaxis and accelerate tip morphogenesis and gene expression during multicellular development. Alteration of the D-motif (mitogen-activated protein kinase docking site) at the amino terminus of the Galpha 5 subunit or the loss of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK)1 diminished the lethality associated with the overexpression or constitutive activation of the Galpha5 subunit. The amino-terminal D-motif of the Galpha5 subunit was also found to be necessary for the reduced cell size, small aggregate formation and precocious developmental gene expression associated with Galpha5 subunit overexpression. This D-motif also contributed to the aggregation delay in cells expressing a constitutively active Galpha5 subunit, but the D-motif was not necessary for the inhibition of folate chemotaxis. These results suggest that the amino-terminal D-motif is required for some but not all phenotypes associated with elevated Galpha5 subunit functions during growth and development and that ERK1 can function in Galpha5 subunit-mediated signal transduction.

Qian, Y., et al. (2010). "UDP-GlcNAc:Glycoprotein N-acetylglucosamine-1-phosphotransferase mediates the initial step in the formation of the methylphosphomannosyl residues on the high mannose oligosaccharides of Dictyostelium discoideum glycoproteins." Biochem Biophys Res Commun 393(4): 678-681.
	The Dictyostelium discoideum gene gpt1 encodes a protein XP_638036 with sequence similarity to the alpha/beta subunits of mammalian UDP-GlcNAc:Glycoprotein N-acetylglucosamine-1-phosphotransferase. We now demonstrate that extracts of D. discoideum clones with mutations in this gene transfer GlcNAc-P from UDP-GlcNAc to mannose residues at less than 5% the wild type value. Further, the lysosomal hydrolases of these mutant clones fail to bind to a cation-independent mannose 6-phosphate receptor affinity column, indicating a lack of methylphosphomannosyl residues on the high mannose oligosaccharides of these proteins. We conclude that the gpt1 gene product catalyzes the initial step in the formation of methylphosphomannosyl residues on D. discoideum lysosomal hydrolases.

Pruvot, B., et al. (2010). "Comparative analysis of nonaspanin protein sequences and expression studies in zebrafish." Immunogenetics 62(10): 681-699.
	Nonaspanins constitute a family of proteins, also called TM9SF, characterized by a large non-cytoplasmic domain and nine putative transmembrane domains. This family is highly conserved through evolution and comprises three members in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Dictyostelium discoideum, and Drosophila melanogaster, and four members are reported in mammals (TM9SF1-TM9SF4). Genetic studies in Dictyostelium and Drosophila have shown that TM9SF members are required for adhesion and phagocytosis in innate immune response, furthermore, human TM9SF1 plays a role in the regulation of autophagy and human TM9SF4 in tumor cannibalism. Here we report that the zebrafish genome encodes five members of this family, TM9SF1-TM9SF5, which show high level of sequence conservation with the previously reported members. Expression analysis in zebrafish showed that all members are maternally expressed and continue to be present throughout embryogenesis to adults. Gene expression could not be regulated by pathogen-associated molecular patterns such as LPS, CpG, or Poly I:C. By bioinformatic analyses of 80 TM9SF protein sequences from yeast, plants, and animals, we confirmed a very conserved protein structure. An evolutionary conserved immunoreceptor tyrosine-based inhibition motif has been detected in the cytoplasmic domain between transmembrane domain (TM) 7 and TM8 in TM9SF1, TM9SF2, TM9SF4 and TM9SF5, and at the extreme C-terminal end of TM9SF4. Finally, a conserved TRAF2 binding domain could also be predicted in the cytoplasmic regions of TM9SF2, TM9SF3, TM9SF4, and TM9SF5. This confirms the hypothesis that TM9SF proteins may play a regulatory role in a specific and ancient cellular mechanism that is involved in innate immunity.

Price, C. T., et al. (2010). "Exploitation of conserved eukaryotic host cell farnesylation machinery by an F-box effector of Legionella pneumophila." J Exp Med 207(8): 1713-1726.
	Farnesylation involves covalent linkage of eukaryotic proteins to a lipid moiety to anchor them into membranes, which is essential for the biological function of Ras and other proteins. A large cadre of bacterial effectors is injected into host cells by intravacuolar pathogens through elaborate type III-VII translocation machineries, and many of these effectors are incorporated into the pathogen-containing vacuolar membrane by unknown mechanisms. The Dot/Icm type IV secretion system of Legionella pneumophila injects into host cells the F-box effector Ankyrin B (AnkB), which functions as platforms for the docking of polyubiquitinated proteins to the Legionella-containing vacuole (LCV) to enable intravacuolar proliferation in macrophages and amoeba. We show that farnesylation of AnkB is indispensable for its anchoring to the cytosolic face of the LCV membrane, for its biological function within macrophages and Dictyostelium discoideum, and for intrapulmonary proliferation in mice. Remarkably, the protein farnesyltransferase, RCE-1 (Ras-converting enzyme-1), and isoprenyl cysteine carboxyl methyltransferase host farnesylation enzymes are recruited to the LCV in a Dot/Icm-dependent manner and are essential for the biological function of AnkB. In conclusion, this study shows novel localized recruitment of the host farnesylation machinery and its anchoring of an F-box effector to the LCV membrane, and this is essential for biological function in vitro and in vivo.

Phillips, J. E. and R. H. Gomer (2010). "The ROCO kinase QkgA is necessary for proliferation inhibition by autocrine signals in Dictyostelium discoideum." Eukaryot Cell 9(10): 1557-1565.
	AprA and CfaD are secreted proteins that function as autocrine signals to inhibit cell proliferation in Dictyostelium discoideum. Cells lacking AprA or CfaD proliferate rapidly, and adding AprA or CfaD to cells slows proliferation. Cells lacking the ROCO kinase QkgA proliferate rapidly, with a doubling time 83% of that of the wild type, and overexpression of a QkgA-green fluorescent protein (GFP) fusion protein slows cell proliferation. We found that qkgA(-) cells accumulate normal levels of extracellular AprA and CfaD. Exogenous AprA or CfaD does not slow the proliferation of cells lacking qkgA, and expression of QkgA-GFP in qkgA(-) cells rescues this insensitivity. Like cells lacking AprA or CfaD, cells lacking QkgA tend to be multinucleate, accumulate nuclei rapidly, and show a mass and protein accumulation per nucleus like those of the wild type, suggesting that QkgA negatively regulates proliferation but not growth. Despite their rapid proliferation, cells lacking AprA, CfaD, or QkgA expand as a colony on bacteria less rapidly than the wild type. Unlike AprA and CfaD, QkgA does not affect spore viability following multicellular development. Together, these results indicate that QkgA is necessary for proliferation inhibition by AprA and CfaD, that QkgA mediates some but not all of the effects of AprA and CfaD, and that QkgA may function downstream of these proteins in a signal transduction pathway regulating proliferation.

Peracino, B., et al. (2010). "Phosphoinositides differentially regulate bacterial uptake and Nramp1-induced resistance to Legionella infection in Dictyostelium." J Cell Sci 123(Pt 23): 4039-4051.
	Membrane phosphatidylinositides recruit cytosolic proteins to regulate phagocytosis, macropinocytosis and endolysosomal vesicle maturation. Here, we describe effects of inactivation of PI3K, PTEN or PLC on Escherichia coli and Legionella pneumophila uptake by the professional phagocyte Dictyostelium discoideum. We show that L. pneumophila is engulfed by macropinocytosis, a process that is partially sensitive to PI3K inactivation, unlike phagocytosis of E. coli. Both processes are blocked by PLC inhibition. Whereas E. coli is rapidly digested, Legionella proliferates intracellularly. Proliferation is blocked by constitutively expressing Nramp1, an endolysosomal iron transporter that confers resistance against invasive bacteria. Inactivation of PI3K, but not PTEN or PLC, enhances Legionella infection and suppresses the protective effect of Nramp1 overexpression. PI3K activity is restricted to early infection and is not mediated by effects on the actin cytoskeleton; rather L. pneumophila, in contrast to E. coli, subverts phosphoinositide-sensitive fusion of Legionella-containing macropinosomes with acidic vesicles, without affecting Nramp1 recruitment. A model is presented to explain how Legionella escapes fusion with acidic vesicles and Nramp1-induced resistance to pathogens.

Parikh, A., et al. (2010). "Conserved developmental transcriptomes in evolutionarily divergent species." Genome Biol 11(3): R35.
	BACKGROUND: Evolutionarily divergent organisms often share developmental anatomies despite vast differences between their genome sequences. The social amoebae Dictyostelium discoideum and Dictyostelium purpureum have similar developmental morphologies although their genomes are as divergent as those of man and jawed fish. RESULTS: Here we show that the anatomical similarities are accompanied by extensive transcriptome conservation. Using RNA sequencing we compared the abundance and developmental regulation of all the transcripts in the two species. In both species, most genes are developmentally regulated and the greatest expression changes occur during the transition from unicellularity to multicellularity. The developmental regulation of transcription is highly conserved between orthologs in the two species. In addition to timing of expression, the level of mRNA production is also conserved between orthologs and is consistent with the intuitive notion that transcript abundance correlates with the amount of protein required. Furthermore, the conservation of transcriptomes extends to cell-type specific expression. CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that developmental programs are remarkably conserved at the transcriptome level, considering the great evolutionary distance between the genomes. Moreover, this transcriptional conservation may be responsible for the similar developmental anatomies of Dictyostelium discoideum and Dictyostelium purpureum.

Parikh, A., et al. (2010). "New components of the Dictyostelium PKA pathway revealed by Bayesian analysis of expression data." BMC Bioinformatics 11: 163.
	BACKGROUND: Identifying candidate genes in genetic networks is important for understanding regulation and biological function. Large gene expression datasets contain relevant information about genetic networks, but mining the data is not a trivial task. Algorithms that infer Bayesian networks from expression data are powerful tools for learning complex genetic networks, since they can incorporate prior knowledge and uncover higher-order dependencies among genes. However, these algorithms are computationally demanding, so novel techniques that allow targeted exploration for discovering new members of known pathways are essential. RESULTS: Here we describe a Bayesian network approach that addresses a specific network within a large dataset to discover new components. Our algorithm draws individual genes from a large gene-expression repository, and ranks them as potential members of a known pathway. We apply this method to discover new components of the cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) pathway, a central regulator of Dictyostelium discoideum development. The PKA network is well studied in D. discoideum but the transcriptional networks that regulate PKA activity and the transcriptional outcomes of PKA function are largely unknown. Most of the genes highly ranked by our method encode either known components of the PKA pathway or are good candidates. We tested 5 uncharacterized highly ranked genes by creating mutant strains and identified a candidate cAMP-response element-binding protein, yet undiscovered in D. discoideum, and a histidine kinase, a candidate upstream regulator of PKA activity. CONCLUSIONS: The single-gene expansion method is useful in identifying new components of known pathways. The method takes advantage of the Bayesian framework to incorporate prior biological knowledge and discovers higher-order dependencies among genes while greatly reducing the computational resources required to process high-throughput datasets.

Pang, T. L., et al. (2010). "Costars, a Dictyostelium protein similar to the C-terminal domain of STARS, regulates the actin cytoskeleton and motility." J Cell Sci 123(Pt 21): 3745-3755.
	Through analysis of a chemotaxis mutant obtained from a genetic screen in Dictyostelium discoideum, we have identified a new gene involved in regulating cell migration and have named it costars (cosA). The 82 amino acid Costars protein sequence appears highly conserved among diverse species, and significantly resembles the C-terminal region of the striated muscle activator of Rho signaling (STARS), a mammalian protein that regulates the serum response factor transcriptional activity through actin binding and Rho GTPase activation. The cosA-null (cosA(-)) cells formed smooth plaques on bacterial lawns, produced abnormally small fruiting bodies when developed on the non-nutrient agar and displayed reduced migration towards the cAMP source in chemotactic assays. Analysis of cell motion in cAMP gradients revealed decreased speed but wild-type-like directional persistence of cosA(-) cells, suggesting a defect in the cellular machinery for motility rather than for chemotactic orientation. Consistent with this notion, cosA(-) cells exhibited changes in the actin cytoskeleton, showing aberrant distribution of F-actin in fluorescence cell staining and an increased amount of cytoskeleton-associated actin. Excessive pseudopod formation was also noted in cosA(-) cells facing chemoattractant gradients. Expressing cosA or its human counterpart mCostars eliminated abnormalities of cosA(-) cells. Together, our results highlight a role for Costars in modulating actin dynamics and cell motility.

Odell, L. R., et al. (2010). "The pthaladyns: GTP competitive inhibitors of dynamin I and II GTPase derived from virtual screening." J Med Chem 53(14): 5267-5280.
	We report the development of a homology model for the GTP binding domain of human dynamin I based on the corresponding crystal structure of Dictyostelium discoidum dynamin A. Virtual screening identified 2-[(2-biphenyl-2-yl-1,3-dioxo-2,3-dihydro-1H-isoindole-5-carbonyl)amino]-4-chloro benzoic acid (1) as a approximately 170 microM potent inhibitor. Homology modeling- and focused library-led synthesis resulted in development of a series of active compounds (the "pthaladyns") with 4-chloro-2-(2-(4-(hydroxymethyl)phenyl)-1,3-dioxoisoindoline-5-carboxamido)benzoi c acid (29), a 4.58 +/- 0.06 microM dynamin I GTPase inhibitor. Pthaladyn-29 displays borderline selectivity for dynamin I relative to dynamin II ( approximately 5-10 fold). Only pthaladyn-23 (dynamin I IC(50) 17.4 +/- 5.8 microM) was an effective inhibitor of dynamin I mediated synaptic vesicle endocytosis in brain synaptosomes with an IC(50) of 12.9 +/- 5.9 microM. This compound was also competitive with respect to Mg(2+).GTP. Thus the pthaladyns are the first GTP competitive inhibitors of dynamin I and II GTPase and may be effective new tools for the study of neuronal endocytosis.

Noguchi, T. Q., et al. (2010). "Dominant negative mutant actins identified in flightless Drosophila can be classified into three classes." J Biol Chem 285(7): 4337-4347.
	Strongly dominant negative mutant actins, identified by An and Mogami (An, H. S., and Mogami, K. (1996) J. Mol. Biol. 260, 492-505), in the indirect flight muscle of Drosophila impaired its flight, even when three copies of the wild-type gene were present. Understanding how these strongly dominant negative mutant actins disrupt the function of wild-type actin would provide useful information about the molecular mechanism by which actin functions in vivo. Here, we expressed and purified six of these strongly dominant negative mutant actins in Dictyostelium and classified them into three groups based on their biochemical phenotypes. The first group, G156D, G156S, and G268D actins, showed impaired polymerization and a tendency to aggregate under conditions favoring polymerization. G63D actin of the second group was also unable to polymerize but, unlike those in the first group, remained soluble under polymerizing conditions. Kinetic analyses using G63D actin or G63D actin.gelsolin complexes suggested that the pointed end surface is defective, which would alter the polymerization kinetics of wild-type actin when mixed and could affect formation of thin filament structures in indirect flight muscle. The third group, R95C and E226K actins, was normal in terms of polymerization, but their motility on heavy meromyosin surfaces in the presence of tropomyosin-troponin indicated altered sensitivity to Ca(2+). Cofilaments in which R95C or E226K actins were copolymerized with a 3-fold excess of wild-type actin also showed altered Ca(2+) sensitivity in the presence of tropomyosin-troponin.

Nguyen, H. N., et al. (2010). "MAP kinases have different functions in Dictyostelium G protein-mediated signaling." Cell Signal 22(5): 836-847.
	Extracellular signal regulated kinases (ERKs) are a class of MAP kinases that function in many signaling pathways in eukaryotic cells and in some cases, a single stimulus can activate more than one ERK suggesting functional redundancy or divergence from a common pathway. Dictyostelium discoideum encodes only two MAP kinases, ERK1 and ERK2, that both function during the developmental life cycle. To determine if ERK1 and ERK2 have overlapping functions, chemotactic and developmental phenotypes of erk1(-) and erk2(-) mutants were assessed with respect to G protein-mediated signal transduction pathways. ERK1 was specifically required for Galpha5-mediated tip morphogenesis and inhibition of folate chemotaxis but not for cAMP-stimulated chemotaxis or cGMP accumulation. ERK2 was the primary MAPK phosphorylated in response to folate or cAMP stimulation. Cell growth was not altered in erk1(-), erk2(-) or erk1(-)erk2(-) mutants but each mutant displayed a different pattern of cell sorting in chimeric aggregates. The distribution of GFP-ERK1 or GFP-ERK2 fusion proteins in the cytoplasm and nucleus was not grossly altered in cells stimulated with cAMP or folate. These results suggest ERK1 and ERK2 have different roles in G protein-mediated signaling during growth and development.

Neumann, C. S., et al. (2010). "A flavin-dependent halogenase catalyzes the chlorination step in the biosynthesis of Dictyostelium differentiation-inducing factor 1." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 107(13): 5798-5803.
	Differentiation-inducing factor 1 (DIF-1) is a polyketide-derived morphogen which drives stalk cell formation in the developmental cycle of Dictyostelium discoideum. Previous experiments demonstrated that the biosynthetic pathway proceeds via dichlorination of the precursor molecule THPH, but the enzyme responsible for this transformation has eluded characterization. Our recent studies on prokaryotic flavin-dependent halogenases and insights from the sequenced Dd genome led us to a candidate gene for this transformation. In this work, we present in vivo and in vitro evidence that chlA from Dd encodes a flavin-dependent halogenase capable of catalyzing both chlorinations in the biosynthesis of DIF-1. The results provide in vitro characterization of a eukaryotic oxygen-dependent halogenase and demonstrate a broad reach in biology for this molecular tailoring strategy, notably its involvement in the differentiation program of a social amoeba.

Nagayama, K. and T. Ohmachi (2010). "Mitochondrial processing peptidase activity is controlled by the processing of alpha-MPP during development in Dictyostelium discoideum." Microbiology 156(Pt 4): 978-989.
	We investigated the expression of the alpha subunit of the Dictyostelium mitochondrial processing peptidase (Ddalpha-MPP) during development. Ddalpha-MPP mRNA is expressed at the highest levels in vegetatively growing cells and during early development, and is markedly downregulated after 10 h of development. The Ddalpha-MPP protein is expressed as two forms, designated alpha-MPP(H) and alpha-MPP(L), throughout the Dictyostelium life cycle. The larger form, alpha-MPP(H), is cleaved to produce the functional alpha-MPP(L) form. We were not able to isolate mutants in which the alpha-mpp gene had been disrupted. Instead, an antisense transformant, alphaA2, expressing alpha-MPP at a lower level than the wild-type AX-3 was isolated to examine the function of the alpha-MPP protein. Development of the alphaA2 strain was normal until the slug formation stage, but the slug stage was prolonged to approximately 24 h. In this prolonged slug stage, only alpha-MPP(H) was present, and alpha-MPP(L) protein and MPP activity were not detected. After 28 h, alpha-MPP(L) and MPP activity reappeared, and normal fruiting bodies were formed after a delay of approximately 8 h compared with normal development. These results indicate that MPP activity is controlled by the processing of alpha-MPP(H) to alpha-MPP(L) during development in Dictyostelium.

Naber, N., et al. (2010). "Combining EPR with fluorescence spectroscopy to monitor conformational changes at the myosin nucleotide pocket." J Mol Biol 396(4): 937-948.
	We used spin-labeled nucleotide analogs and fluorescence spectroscopy to monitor conformational changes at the nucleotide-binding site of wild-type Dictyostelium discoideum (WT) myosin and a construct containing a single tryptophan at position F239 near the switch 1 loop. Electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) spectroscopy and tryptophan fluorescence have been used previously to investigate changes at the myosin nucleotide site. A limitation of fluorescence spectroscopy is that it must be done on mutated myosins containing only a single tryptophan. A limitation of EPR spectroscopy is that one infers protein conformational changes from alterations in the mobility of an attached probe. These limitations have led to controversies regarding conclusions reached by the two approaches. For the first time, the data presented here allow direct correlations to be made between the results from the two spectroscopic approaches on the same proteins and extend our previous EPR studies to a nonmuscle myosin. EPR probe mobility indicates that the conformation of the nucleotide pocket of the WTSLADP (spin-labeled ADP) complex is similar to that of skeletal myosin. The pocket is closed in the absence of actin for both diphosphate and triphosphate nucleotide states. In the actin myosin diphosphate state, the pocket is in equilibrium between closed and open conformations, with the open conformation slightly more favorable than that seen for fast skeletal actomyosin. The EPR spectra for the mutant show similar conformations to skeletal myosin, with one exception: in the absence of actin, the nucleotide pocket of the mutant displays an open component that was approximately 4-5 kJ/mol more favorable than in skeletal or WT myosin. These observations resolve the controversies between the two techniques. The data from both techniques confirm that binding of myosin to actin alters the conformation of the myosin nucleotide pocket with similar but not identical energetics in both muscle and nonmuscle myosins.

Mondal, S., et al. (2010). "Regulation of the actin cytoskeleton by an interaction of IQGAP related protein GAPA with filamin and cortexillin I." PLoS One 5(11): e15440.
	Filamin and Cortexillin are F-actin crosslinking proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum allowing actin filaments to form three-dimensional networks. GAPA, an IQGAP related protein, is required for cytokinesis and localizes to the cleavage furrow during cytokinesis. Here we describe a novel interaction with Filamin which is required for cytokinesis and regulation of the F-actin content. The interaction occurs through the actin binding domain of Filamin and the GRD domain of GAPA. A similar interaction takes place with Cortexillin I. We further report that Filamin associates with Rac1a implying that filamin might act as a scaffold for small GTPases. Filamin and activated Rac associate with GAPA to regulate actin remodelling. Overexpression of filamin and GAPA in the various strains suggests that GAPA regulates the actin cytoskeleton through interaction with Filamin and that it controls cytokinesis through association with Filamin and Cortexillin.

Middelbeek, J., et al. (2010). "The alpha-kinase family: an exceptional branch on the protein kinase tree." Cell Mol Life Sci 67(6): 875-890.
	The alpha-kinase family represents a class of atypical protein kinases that display little sequence similarity to conventional protein kinases. Early studies on myosin heavy chain kinases in Dictyostelium discoideum revealed their unusual propensity to phosphorylate serine and threonine residues in the context of an alpha-helix. Although recent studies show that some members of this family can also phosphorylate residues in non-helical regions, the name alpha-kinase has remained. During evolution, the alpha-kinase domains combined with many different functional subdomains such as von Willebrand factor-like motifs (vWKa) and even cation channels (TRPM6 and TRPM7). As a result, these kinases are implicated in a large variety of cellular processes such as protein translation, Mg(2+) homeostasis, intracellular transport, cell migration, adhesion, and proliferation. Here, we review the current state of knowledge on different members of this kinase family and discuss the potential use of alpha-kinases as drug targets in diseases such as cancer.

Mercanti, V. and P. Cosson (2010). "Resistance of Dictyostelium discoideum membranes to saponin permeabilization." BMC Res Notes 3: 120.
	BACKGROUND: Saponin is a mild detergent commonly used to permeabilize cells prior to immunofluorescence labeling of intracellular proteins. It has previously been used to that effect in Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae. FINDINGS: We show that saponin, contrary to Triton X-100 or alcohol, permeabilizes at best incompletely membranes of Dictyostelium. In cells exposed to osmotic stress, almost complete resistance to saponin permeabilization was observed. CONCLUSIONS: Saponin should be used with special care to permeabilize Dictyostelium membranes. This unsusual property is presumably linked to the specific sterol composition of Dictyostelium membranes. It may also represent an adaptation of Dictyostelium to harsh conditions or to natural compounds encountered in its natural environment.

Melykuti, B., et al. (2010). "Discriminating between rival biochemical network models: three approaches to optimal experiment design." BMC Syst Biol 4: 38.
	BACKGROUND: The success of molecular systems biology hinges on the ability to use computational models to design predictive experiments, and ultimately unravel underlying biological mechanisms. A problem commonly encountered in the computational modelling of biological networks is that alternative, structurally different models of similar complexity fit a set of experimental data equally well. In this case, more than one molecular mechanism can explain available data. In order to rule out the incorrect mechanisms, one needs to invalidate incorrect models. At this point, new experiments maximizing the difference between the measured values of alternative models should be proposed and conducted. Such experiments should be optimally designed to produce data that are most likely to invalidate incorrect model structures. RESULTS: In this paper we develop methodologies for the optimal design of experiments with the aim of discriminating between different mathematical models of the same biological system. The first approach determines the 'best' initial condition that maximizes the L2 (energy) distance between the outputs of the rival models. In the second approach, we maximize the L2-distance of the outputs by designing the optimal external stimulus (input) profile of unit L2-norm. Our third method uses optimized structural changes (corresponding, for example, to parameter value changes reflecting gene knock-outs) to achieve the same goal. The numerical implementation of each method is considered in an example, signal processing in starving Dictyostelium amoebae. CONCLUSIONS: Model-based design of experiments improves both the reliability and the efficiency of biochemical network model discrimination. This opens the way to model invalidation, which can be used to perfect our understanding of biochemical networks. Our general problem formulation together with the three proposed experiment design methods give the practitioner new tools for a systems biology approach to experiment design.

Mehdiabadi, N. J., et al. (2010). "Phylogeography and sexual macrocyst formation in the social amoeba Dictyostelium giganteum." BMC Evol Biol 10: 17.
	BACKGROUND: Microorganisms are ubiquitous, yet we are only beginning to understand their diversity and population structure. Social amoebae (Dictyostelia) are a diverse group of unicellular eukaryotic microbes that display a unique social behaviour upon starvation in which cells congregate and then some die to help others survive and disperse. The genetic relationships among co-occurring cells have a major influence on the evolution of social traits and recent population genetic analysis found extensive genetic variation and possible cryptic speciation in one dictyostelid species (Dictyostelium purpureum). To further characterize the interplay among genetic variation, species boundaries, social behaviour, and reproductive isolation in the Dictyostelia, we conducted phylogenetic analyses and mating experiments with the geographically widespread social amoeba Dictyostelium giganteum. RESULTS: We sequenced approximately 4,000 basepairs of the nuclear ribosomal DNA from 24 isolates collected from Texas, Michigan, Massachusetts, Virginia, and Wisconsin and identified 16 unique haplotypes. Analyses of the sequence data revealed very little genetic differentiation among isolates and no clear evidence of phylogenetic structure, although there was evidence for some genetic differentiation between the Massachusetts and Texas populations. These results suggest that sexual mating (macrocyst formation) is not likely to correlate with either genetic or geographical distance. To test this prediction, we performed 108 mating experiments and found no association between mating probability and genetic or geographical distance. CONCLUSIONS: D. giganteum isolates from across North America display little genetic variation, phylogeographic structure, and genetic differentiation among populations relative to the cryptic species observed within D. purpureum. Furthermore, variation that does exist does not predict the probability of mating among clones. These results have important implications for our understanding of speciation and social evolution in microbes.

McVey, M. (2010). "Strategies for DNA interstrand crosslink repair: insights from worms, flies, frogs, and slime molds." Environ Mol Mutagen 51(6): 646-658.
	DNA interstrand crosslinks (ICLs) are complex lesions that covalently link both strands of the DNA double helix and impede essential cellular processes such as DNA replication and transcription. Recent studies suggest that multiple repair pathways are involved in their removal. Elegant genetic analysis has demonstrated that at least three distinct sets of pathways cooperate in the repair and/or bypass of ICLs in budding yeast. Although the mechanisms of ICL repair in mammals appear similar to those in yeast, important differences have been documented. In addition, mammalian crosslink repair requires other repair factors, such as the Fanconi anemia proteins, whose functions are poorly understood. Because many of these proteins are conserved in simpler metazoans, nonmammalian models have become attractive systems for studying the function(s) of key crosslink repair factors. This review discusses the contributions that various model organisms have made to the field of ICL repair. Specifically, it highlights how studies performed with C. elegans, Drosophila, Xenopus, and the social amoeba Dictyostelium serve to complement those from bacteria, yeast, and mammals. Together, these investigations have revealed that although the underlying themes of ICL repair are largely conserved, the complement of DNA repair proteins utilized and the ways in which each of the proteins is used can vary substantially between different organisms.

McNaughton, L., et al. (2010). "A low affinity ground state conformation for the Dynein microtubule binding domain." J Biol Chem 285(21): 15994-16002.
	Dynein interacts with microtubules through a dedicated binding domain that is dynamically controlled to achieve high or low affinity, depending on the state of nucleotide bound in a distant catalytic pocket. The active sites for microtubule binding and ATP hydrolysis communicate via conformational changes transduced through a approximately 10-nm length antiparallel coiled-coil stalk, which connects the binding domain to the roughly 300-kDa motor core. Recently, an x-ray structure of the murine cytoplasmic dynein microtubule binding domain (MTBD) in a weak affinity conformation was published, containing a covalently constrained beta(+) registry for the coiled-coil stalk segment (Carter, A. P., Garbarino, J. E., Wilson-Kubalek, E. M., Shipley, W. E., Cho, C., Milligan, R. A., Vale, R. D., and Gibbons, I. R. (2008) Science 322, 1691-1695). We here present an NMR analysis of the isolated MTBD from Dictyostelium discoideum that demonstrates the coiled-coil beta(+) registry corresponds to the low energy conformation for this functional region of dynein. Addition of sequence encoding roughly half of the coiled-coil stalk proximal to the binding tip results in a decreased affinity of the MTBD for microtubules. In contrast, addition of the complete coiled-coil sequence drives the MTBD to the conformationally unstable, high affinity binding state. These results suggest a thermodynamic coupling between conformational free energy differences in the alpha and beta(+) registries of the coiled-coil stalk that acts as a switch between high and low affinity conformations of the MTBD. A balancing of opposing conformations in the stalk and MTBD enables potentially modest long-range interactions arising from ATP binding in the motor core to induce a relaxation of the MTBD into the stable low affinity state.

McMains, V. C., et al. (2010). "Dictyostelium possesses highly diverged presenilin/gamma-secretase that regulates growth and cell-fate specification and can accurately process human APP: a system for functional studies of the presenilin/gamma-secretase complex." Dis Model Mech 3(9-10): 581-594.
	Presenilin (PS) is the catalytic moiety of the gamma-secretase complex. PS and other gamma-secretase components are well conserved among metazoa, but their presence and function in more-distant species are not resolved. Because inappropriate gamma-secretase processing of amyloid precursor protein (APP) in humans is associated with familial Alzheimer's disease, understanding essential elements within each gamma-secretase component is crucial to functional studies. Diverged proteins have been identified in primitive plants but experiments have failed to demonstrate gamma-secretase activity. We have identified highly diverged orthologs for each gamma-secretase component in the ancient eukaryote Dictyostelium, which lacks equivalents of APP, Notch and other characterized PS/gamma-secretase substrates. We show that wild-type (WT) Dictyostelium is capable of amyloidogenic processing of ectopically expressed human APP to generate amyloid-beta peptides Abeta(40) and Abeta(42); strains deficient in gamma-secretase cannot produce Abeta peptides but accumulate processed intermediates of APP that co-migrate with the C-terminal fragments alpha- and beta-CTF of APP that are found in mammalian cells. We further demonstrate that Dictyostelium requires PS for phagocytosis and cell-fate specification in a cell-autonomous manner, and show that regulation of phagocytosis requires an active gamma-secretase, a pathway suggested, but not proven, to occur in mammalian and Drosophila cells. Our results indicate that PS signaling is an ancient process that arose prior to metazoan radiation, perhaps independently of Notch. Dictyostelium might serve to identify novel PS/gamma-secretase signaling targets and provide a unique system for high-throughput screening of small-molecule libraries to select new therapeutic targets for diseases associated with this pathway.

McCann, C. P., et al. (2010). "Cell speed, persistence and information transmission during signal relay and collective migration." J Cell Sci 123(Pt 10): 1724-1731.
	Collective migration is a key feature of the social amoebae Dictyostelium discoideum, where the binding of chemoattractants leads to the production and secretion of additional chemoattractant and the relay of the signal to neighboring cells. This then guides cells to migrate collectively in a head-to-tail fashion. We used mutants that were defective in signal relay to elucidate which quantitative metrics of cell migration are most strongly affected by signal relay and collective motion. We show that neither signal relay nor collective motion markedly impact the speed of cell migration. Cells maintained a preferred overall direction of motion for several minutes with similar persistence, regardless of whether or not they were attracted to moving neighbors, moving collectively in contact with their neighbors, or simply following a fixed exogenous signal. We quantitatively establish that signal relay not only increases the number of cells that respond to a chemotactic signal, but most remarkably, also transmits information about the location of the source accurately over large distances, independently of the strength of the exogenous signal. We envision that signal relay has a similar key role in the migration of a variety of chemotaxing mammalian cells that can relay chemoattractant signals.

McCall, K. (2010). "Genetic control of necrosis - another type of programmed cell death." Curr Opin Cell Biol 22(6): 882-888.
	Necrosis has been thought to be an accidental or uncontrolled type of cell death rather than programmed. Recent studies from diverse organisms show that necrosis follows a stereotypical series of cellular and molecular events: swelling of organelles, increases in reactive oxygen species and cytoplasmic calcium, a decrease in ATP, activation of calpain and cathepsin proteases, and finally rupture of organelles and plasma membrane. Genetic and chemical manipulations demonstrate that necrosis can be inhibited, indicating that necrosis can indeed be controlled and follows a specific 'program.' This review highlights recent findings from C. elegans, yeast, Dictyostelium, Drosophila, and mammals that collectively provide evidence for conserved mechanisms of necrosis.

Matsuda, T., et al. (2010). "Dictyostelium differentiation-inducing factor-1 binds to mitochondrial malate dehydrogenase and inhibits its activity." J Pharmacol Sci 112(3): 320-326.
	We have reported that the differentiation-inducing factors (DIFs) DIF-1 and DIF-3, morphogens secreted from Dictyostelium discoideum, inhibit proliferation of several cancer cells via suppression of the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway. However, the target molecules of DIFs involved in the anti-proliferative effects are still unknown. In the present study, DIF-1-tethered resins were synthesized to explore the target molecules of DIFs, and mitochondrial malate dehydrogenase (mMDH) was identified as one of the target molecules. In the in vitro assay, DIF-1 and other analogs including 2-MIDIF-1, DIF-3, and 6-MIDIF-3 were found to be capable of binding to mMDH but not to cytoplasmic MDH. However, only DIF-1 and 2-MIDIF-1 inhibited the enzymatic activity of mMDH. The effects of DIF analogs on ATP content and cell proliferation were then analyzed using HeLa cells. DIF-1 and 2-MIDIF-1 were found to lower the ATP content and both chemicals inhibited HeLa cell proliferation, suggesting that inhibition of mMDH activity affected cell energy production, probably leading to the inhibition of proliferation. These results suggest that the inhibition of mMDH activity by DIF-1 and 2-MIDIF-1 could be one of the mechanisms to induce anti-proliferative effects, independent of the inhibition of the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway.

Mathieu, S. V., et al. (2010). "Discoidin I from Dictyostelium discoideum and Interactions with oligosaccharides: specificity, affinity, crystal structures, and comparison with discoidin II." J Mol Biol 400(3): 540-554.
	Discoidin I (DiscI) and discoidin II (DiscII) are N-acetylgalactosamine (GalNAc)-binding proteins from Dictyostelium discoideum. They consist of two domains: an N-terminal discoidin domain and a C-terminal H-type lectin domain. They were cloned and expressed in high yield in recombinant form in Escherichia coli. Although both lectins bind galactose (Gal) and GalNAc, glycan array experiments performed on the recombinant proteins displayed strong differences in their specificity for oligosaccharides. DiscI and DiscII bind preferentially to Gal/GalNAcbeta1-3Gal/GalNAc-containing and Gal/GalNAcbeta1-4GlcNAcbeta1-6Gal/GalNAc-containing glycans, respectively. The affinity of the interaction of DiscI with monosaccharides and disaccharides was evaluated using isothermal titration calorimetry experiments. The three-dimensional structures of native DiscI and its complexes with GalNAc, GalNAcbeta1-3Gal, and Galbeta1-3GalNAc were solved by X-ray crystallography. DiscI forms trimers with involvement of calcium at the monomer interface. The N-terminal discoidin domain presents a structural similarity to F-type lectins such as the eel agglutinin, where an amphiphilic binding pocket suggests possible carbohydrate-binding activity. In the C-terminal H-type lectin domain, the GalNAc residue establishes specific hydrogen bonds that explain the observed affinity (K(d)=3x10(-4) M). The different specificities of DiscI and DiscII for oligosaccharides were rationalized from the different structures obtained by either X-ray crystallography or molecular modeling.

Marsano, F., et al. (2010). "Effects of mercury on Dictyostelium discoideum: proteomics reveals the molecular mechanisms of physiological adaptation and toxicity." J Proteome Res 9(6): 2839-2854.
	Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae were exposed to Hg 2 microM corresponding to a sublethal concentration and Hg 10 microM with the first effects on mortality and replication rate. A total of 900 spots were visualized by 2-DE electrophoresis. Two-hundred fifty single proteins were identified by mass spectrometry. Low Hg concentration (2 microM) treatment induced up-regulation of 13 spots, mainly involved in oxidative stress response/detoxification, oxidoreductase activity, and metabolic processes. High Hg concentration (10 microM) treatment showed a different PES with 12 proteins downregulated and only two up-regulated, mainly involved in cellular metabolic processes, metal ion binding, and transferase activity. The analyses for the carbonylation show no changes after 2 microM Hg(2+) treatment and 13 differentially carbonylated proteins after 10 microM Hg(2+) involved in a broad range of cellular processes. Our findings provide insight into the mechanisms of physiological adaptation and toxicity to a low and an high mercury concentration, respectively, of Dictyostelium amoebae.

Mantzouranis, L., et al. (2010). "KeaA, a Dictyostelium Kelch-domain protein that regulates the response to stress and development." BMC Dev Biol 10: 79.
	BACKGROUND: The protein kinase YakA is responsible for the growth arrest and induction of developmental processes that occur upon starvation of Dictyostelium cells. yakA- cells are aggregation deficient, have a faster cell cycle and are hypersensitive to oxidative and nitrosoative stress. With the aim of isolating members of the YakA pathway, suppressors of the death induced by nitrosoative stress in the yakA- cells were identified. One of the suppressor mutations occurred in keaA, a gene identical to DG1106 and similar to Keap1 from mice and the Kelch protein from Drosophila, among others that contain Kelch domains. RESULTS: A mutation in keaA suppresses the hypersensitivity to oxidative and nitrosoative stresses but not the faster growth phenotype of yakA- cells. The growth profile of keaA deficient cells indicates that this gene is necessary for growth. keaA deficient cells are more resistant to nitrosoative and oxidative stress and keaA is necessary for the production and detection of cAMP. A morphological analysis of keaA deficient cells during multicellular development indicated that, although the mutant is not absolutely deficient in aggregation, cells do not efficiently participate in the process. Gene expression analysis using cDNA microarrays of wild-type and keaA deficient cells indicated a role for KeaA in the regulation of the cell cycle and pre-starvation responses. CONCLUSIONS: KeaA is required for cAMP signaling following stress. Our studies indicate a role for kelch proteins in the signaling that regulates the cell cycle and development in response to changes in the environmental conditions.

Manjithaya, R. and S. Subramani (2010). "Role of autophagy in unconventional protein secretion." Autophagy 6(5).
	In the secretory pathway, the secretion of proteins to the plasma membrane or to the extracellular milieu occurs via vesicular transport from the endoplasmic reticulum, via the Golgi apparatus, to the plasma membrane. This process and the players involved are understood in considerable detail. However, the mode of secretion of proteins that lack a signal sequence and do not transit through the secretory pathway has not been described, despite the fact that the literature is replete with examples of such proteins. One such protein is an evolutionarily conserved, secreted Acyl-CoA binding protein (known as AcbA in Dictyostelium discoideum, Acb1 in yeast and diazepam-binding inhibitor in mammals). Two recent papers highlighted in this punctum have elucidated the pathways required for the unconventional secretion of Acb1 in Pichia pastoris and Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Both implicate autophagy proteins and autophagosome formation in the process, while also uncovering roles for other interesting proteins in the unconventional secretion of Acb1.

Manjithaya, R., et al. (2010). "Unconventional secretion of Pichia pastoris Acb1 is dependent on GRASP protein, peroxisomal functions, and autophagosome formation." J Cell Biol 188(4): 537-546.
	In contrast to the enormous advances made regarding mechanisms of conventional protein secretion, mechanistic insights into the unconventional secretion of proteins are lacking. Acyl coenzyme A (CoA)-binding protein (ACBP; AcbA in Dictyostelium discoideum), an unconventionally secreted protein, is dependent on Golgi reassembly and stacking protein (GRASP) for its secretion. We discovered, surprisingly, that the secretion, processing, and function of an AcbA-derived peptide, SDF-2, are conserved between the yeast Pichia pastoris and D. discoideum. We show that in yeast, the secretion of SDF-2-like activity is GRASP dependent, triggered by nitrogen starvation, and requires autophagy proteins as well as medium-chain fatty acyl CoA generated by peroxisomes. Additionally, a phospholipase D implicated in soluble N-ethyl-maleimide sensitive fusion protein attachment protein receptor-mediated vesicle fusion at the plasma membrane is necessary, but neither peroxisome turnover nor fusion between autophagosomes and the vacuole is essential. Moreover, yeast Acb1 and several proteins required for its secretion are necessary for sporulation in P. pastoris. Our findings implicate currently unknown, evolutionarily conserved pathways in unconventional secretion.

Mana-Capelli, S., et al. (2010). "Dictyostelium centrin B localization during cell cycle progression." Commun Integr Biol 3(1): 39-41.
	Recently, we have reported the initial characterization of a novel centrin from Dictyostelium discoideum (DdCenB).1 Sequence and phylogenetic analyses clearly establish DdCenB as a centrin, yet further characterization revealed some interesting peculiarities about this novel centrin. Figure 1 depicts the localization of DdCenB at three points in the cell cycle: interphase, mitosis and cytokinesis. In interphase DdCenB primarily localizes to the nuclear envelope (NE). Although the NE remains intact during mitosis and cytokinesis in Dictyostelium, DdCenB disappears from the NE at these two stages of the cell cycle. In addition to localization at the NE, we also see weak localization in the nucleoplasm and cytoplasm (weakest). Although the nucleoplasmic concentration appears constant throughout the cell cycle, the very faint localization in the cytoplasm does appear to increase to the level of the nucleoplasm during mitosis and cytokinesis. Unlike most centrins characterized to date, we found no evidence of DdCenB at the centrosome at any point in the cell cycle. Here we examine the importance of DdCenB localization in cell cycle progression, as well as several other roles.

MacIntyre, D. L., et al. (2010). "The Vibrio cholerae type VI secretion system displays antimicrobial properties." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 107(45): 19520-19524.
	The acute diarrheal disease cholera is caused by the marine bacterium Vibrio cholerae. A type VI secretion system (T6SS), which is structurally similar to the bacteriophage cell-puncturing device, has been recently identified in V. cholerae and is used by this organism to confer virulence toward phagocytic eukaryotes, such as J774 murine macrophages and Dictyostelium discoideum. We tested the interbacterial virulence of V. cholerae strain V52, an O37 serogroup with a constitutively active T6SS. V52 was found to be highly virulent toward multiple Gram-negative bacteria, including Escherichia coli and Salmonella Typhimurium, and caused up to a 100,000-fold reduction in E. coli survival. Because the T6SS-deficient mutants V52DeltavasK and V52DeltavasH showed toxicity defects that could be complemented, virulence displayed by V. cholerae depends on a functional T6SS. V. cholerae V52 and strains of the O1 serogroup were resistant to V52, suggesting that V. cholerae has acquired immunity independently of its serogroup. We hypothesize that the T6SS, in addition to targeting eukaryotic host cells, confers toxicity toward other bacteria, providing a means of interspecies competition to enhance environmental survival. Thus, the V. cholerae T6SS may enhance the survival of V. cholerae in its aquatic ecosystem during the transmission of cholera and between epidemics.

Loomis, W. F., et al. (2010). "Pregnenolone sulfate and cortisol induce secretion of acyl-CoA-binding protein and its conversion into endozepines from astrocytes." J Biol Chem 285(28): 21359-21365.
	Acyl-CoA-binding protein (ACBP) functions both intracellularly as part of fatty acid metabolism and extracellularly as diazepam binding inhibitor, the precursor of endozepine peptides. Two of these peptides, ODN and TTN, bind to the GABA(A) receptor and modulate its sensitivity to gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). We have found that depolarization of mouse primary astrocytes induces the rapid release and processing of ACBP to the active peptides. We previously showed that ODN can trigger the rapid sporulation of the social amoeba Dictyostelium. Using this bioassay, we now show that astrocytes release the endozepine peptides within 10 min of exposure to the steroids cortisol, pregnenolone, pregnenolone sulfate, or progesterone. ACBP lacks a signal sequence for secretion through the endoplasmic reticulum/Golgi pathway and its secretion is not affected by addition of brefeldin A, a well known inhibitor of the classical secretion pathway, suggesting that it follows an unconventional pathway for secretion. Moreover, induction of autophagy by addition of rapamycin also resulted in rapid release of ACBP indicating that this protein uses components of the autophagy pathway for secretion. Following secretion, ACBP is proteolytically cleaved to the active neuropeptides by protease activity on the surface of astrocytes. Neurosteroids, such as pregnenolone sulfate, were previously shown to modulate the excitatory/inhibitory balance in brain through increased release of glutamate and decreased release of GABA. These effects of steroids in neurons will be reinforced by the release of endozepines from astrocytes shown here, and suggest an orchestrated astrocyte-neuron cross-talk that can affect a broad spectrum of behavioral functions.

Liu, X., et al. (2010). "Mutation of actin Tyr-53 alters the conformations of the DNase I-binding loop and the nucleotide-binding cleft." J Biol Chem 285(13): 9729-9739.
	All but 11 of the 323 known actin sequences have Tyr at position 53, and the 11 exceptions have the conservative substitution Phe, which raises the following questions. What is the critical role(s) of Tyr-53, and, if it can be replaced by Phe, why has this happened so infrequently? We compared the properties of purified endogenous Dictyostelium actin and mutant constructs with Tyr-53 replaced by Phe, Ala, Glu, Trp, and Leu. The Y53F mutant did not differ significantly from endogenous actin in any of the properties assayed, but the Y53A and Y53E mutants differed substantially; affinity for DNase I was reduced, the rate of nucleotide exchange was increased, the critical concentration for polymerization was increased, filament elongation was inhibited, and polymerized actin was in the form of small oligomers and imperfect filaments. Growth and/or development of cells expressing these actin mutants were also inhibited. The Trp and Leu mutations had lesser but still significant effects on cell phenotype and the biochemical properties of the purified actins. We conclude that either Tyr or Phe is required to maintain the functional conformations of the DNase I-binding loop (D-loop) in both G- and F-actin, and that the conformation of the D-loop affects not only the properties that directly involve the D-loop (binding to DNase I and polymerization) but also allosterically modifies the conformation of the nucleotide-binding cleft, thus increasing the rate of nucleotide exchange. The apparent evolutionary "preference" for Tyr at position 53 may be the result of Tyr allowing dynamic modification of the D-loop conformation by phosphorylation (Baek, K., Liu, X., Ferron, F., Shu, S., Korn, E. D., and Dominguez, R. (2008) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 105, 11748-11753) with effects similar, but not identical, to those of the Ala and Glu mutations.

Linares, J. F., et al. (2010). "The global regulator Crc modulates metabolism, susceptibility to antibiotics and virulence in Pseudomonas aeruginosa." Environ Microbiol 12(12): 3196-3212.
	The capacity of a bacterial pathogen to produce a disease in a treated host depends on the former's virulence and resistance to antibiotics. Several scattered pieces of evidence suggest that these two characteristics can be influenced by bacterial metabolism. This potential relationship is particularly important upon infection of a host, a situation that demands bacteria adapt their physiology to their new environment, making use of newly available nutrients. To explore the potential cross-talk between bacterial metabolism, antibiotic resistance and virulence, a Pseudomonas aeruginosa model was used. This species is an important opportunistic pathogen intrinsically resistant to many antibiotics. The role of Crc, a global regulator that controls the metabolism of carbon sources and catabolite repression in Pseudomonas, was analysed to determine its contribution to the intrinsic antibiotic resistance and virulence of P. aeruginosa. Using proteomic analyses, high-throughput metabolic tests and functional assays, the present work shows the virulence and antibiotic resistance of this pathogen to be linked to its physiology, and to be under the control (directly or indirectly) of Crc. A P. aeruginosa strain lacking the Crc regulator showed defects in type III secretion, motility, expression of quorum sensing-regulated virulence factors, and was less virulent in a Dictyostelium discoideum model. In addition, this mutant strain was more susceptible to beta-lactams, aminoglycosides, fosfomycin and rifampin. Crc might therefore be a good target in the search for new antibiotics.

Lin, W. H., et al. (2010). "Functional roles of VASP phosphorylation in the regulation of chemotaxis and osmotic stress response." Cytoskeleton (Hoboken) 67(4): 259-271.
	Vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein (VASP) plays crucial roles in controlling F-actin-driven processes and growing evidence indicates that VASP function is modulated by phosphorylation at multiple sites. However, the complexity of mammalian system prevents the clear understanding of the role of VASP phosphorylation. In this study, we took advantage of Dictyostelium which possesses only one member of the Ena/VASP family to investigate the functional roles of VASP phosphorylation. Our results demonstrated that hyperosmotic stress and cAMP stimulation cause VASP phosphorylation. VASP phosphorylation plays a negative role for the early steps of filopodia/microspikes formation. VASP phosphorylation appears to modulate VASP localization at the membrane cortex and its interactions with WASP and WIPa. Analysis of chemotaxis of cells expressing VASP mutants showed that VASP phosphorylation is required for the establishment of cell polarity under a cAMP gradient.

Liao, X. H., et al. (2010). "Chemotactic activation of Dictyostelium AGC-family kinases AKT and PKBR1 requires separate but coordinated functions of PDK1 and TORC2." J Cell Sci 123(Pt 6): 983-992.
	Protein kinases AKT and PKBR1 of Dictyostelium belong to the AGC protein kinase superfamily. AKT and PKBR1 are phosphorylated at similar sites by phosphoinositide-dependent kinase 1 (PDK1) and TORC2 kinases; however, they have different subcellular localizing domains. AKT has a phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K)/phosphatidylinositol (3,4,5)-trisphosphate [PtdIns(3,4,5)P(3)]-regulated PH (pleckstrin homology) domain whereas PKBR1 is myristoylated and persistently membrane localized. Using strains defective for PI3K/PtdIns(3,4,5)P(3)-, PDK1- and TORC2-signaling or strains that express phospho-site mutants of AKT and PKBR1, we dissect the different roles of PI3K/PtdIns(3,4,5)P(3), PDK1 and TORC2. We show that activation of AKT and PKBR1 requires PDK1-site phosphorylation, but that phosphorylation by TORC2 is insufficient for AKT or PKBR1 activation. However, PDK1-site phosphorylation is dependent on phosphorylation by TORC2, which suggests that there is regulatory coordination among PDK1, TORC2 and their phospho-site targets. This defines a separate input for signaling in control of chemotaxis and dependency on PDK1 function. We also demonstrate that PDK1 in Dictyostelium functions independently of PI3K/PtdIns(3,4,5)P(3). Finally, we show that AKT and PKBR1 exhibit substrate selectivity and identify two novel lipid-interacting proteins preferentially phosphorylated by AKT. Despite certain similarities, AKT and PKBR1 have distinct regulatory paths that impact activation and effector targeting, with PDK1 serving a central role.

Lee, S., et al. (2010). "Involvement of the cytoskeleton in controlling leading-edge function during chemotaxis." Mol Biol Cell 21(11): 1810-1824.
	In response to directional stimulation by a chemoattractant, cells rapidly activate a series of signaling pathways at the site closest to the chemoattractant source that leads to F-actin polymerization, pseudopod formation, and directional movement up the gradient. Ras proteins are major regulators of chemotaxis in Dictyostelium; they are activated at the leading edge, are required for chemoattractant-mediated activation of PI3K and TORC2, and are one of the most rapid responders, with activity peaking at approximately 3 s after stimulation. We demonstrate that in myosin II (MyoII) null cells, Ras activation is highly extended and is not restricted to the site closest to the chemoattractant source. This causes elevated, extended, and spatially misregulated activation of PI3K and TORC2 and their effectors Akt/PKB and PKBR1, as well as elevated F-actin polymerization. We further demonstrate that disruption of specific IQGAP/cortexillin complexes, which also regulate cortical mechanics, causes extended activation of PI3K and Akt/PKB but not Ras activation. Our findings suggest that MyoII and IQGAP/cortexillin play key roles in spatially and temporally regulating leading-edge activity and, through this, the ability of cells to restrict the site of pseudopod formation.

Kuzdzal-Fick, J. J., et al. (2010). "An invitation to die: initiators of sociality in a social amoeba become selfish spores." Biol Lett 6(6): 800-802.
	Greater size and strength are common attributes of contest winners. Even in social insects with high cooperation, the right to reproduce falls to the well-fed queens rather than to poorly fed workers. In Dictyostelium discoideum, formerly solitary amoebae aggregate when faced with starvation, and some cells die to form a stalk which others ride up to reach a better location to sporulate. The first cells to starve have lower energy reserves than those that starve later, and previous studies have shown that the better-fed cells in a mix tend to form disproportionately more reproductive spores. Therefore, one might expect that the first cells to starve and initiate the social stage should act altruistically and form disproportionately more of the sterile stalk, thereby enticing other better-fed cells into joining the aggregate. This would resemble caste determination in social insects, where altruistic workers are typically fed less than reproductive queens. However, we show that the opposite result holds: the first cells to starve become reproductive spores, presumably by gearing up for competition and outcompeting late starvers to become prespore first. These findings pose the interesting question of why others would join selfish organizers.

Kubohara, Y. and H. Kuwayama (2010). "[Low molecular compounds that regulate cell differentiation and chemotaxis in Dictyostelium discoideum]." Seikagaku 82(12): 1132-1137.
	
Kubohara, Y., et al. (2010). "Preparation of an antibody that recognizes and neutralizes Dictyostelium differentiation-inducing factor-1." Biochem Biophys Res Commun 396(2): 364-369.
	In the development of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum, the differentiation-inducing factor-1 (DIF-1; 1-(3,5-dichloro-2,6-dihydroxy-4-methoxyphenyl)hexan-1-one) plays an important role in the regulation of cell differentiation and chemotaxis; however, the cellular signaling systems involving DIF-1 remain to be elucidated. To obtain a probe for DIF-1, we synthesized a DIF derivative (DIF-1-NH(2); 6-amino-1-(3,5-dichloro-2,6-dihydroxy-4-methoxyphenyl)hexan-1-one), and prepared an anti-DIF-1 antibody using a DIF-1-NH(2)-conjugated macromolecule as the immunogen. A 100-fold dilution of the antibody bound to DIF-1-NH(2)-conjugated resin, and this binding was inhibited by co-addition of 20 microM DIF-1 or DIF-1-NH(2). In a monolayer culture of HM44 cells, a DIF-deficient D. discoideum strain, 0.5 nM exogenous DIF-1 induced stalk cell formation in approximately 60% of the cells; this induction was dose-dependently inhibited by the antibody (diluted 12.5- or 25-fold). Furthermore, this inhibition by the antibody was recovered by co-addition of 2.5 or10 nM DIF-1. The results indicate that the anti-DIF-1 antibody recognizes DIF-1 and neutralizes its function.

Kortholt, A., et al. (2010). "A Rap/phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase pathway controls pseudopod formation [corrected]." Mol Biol Cell 21(6): 936-945.
	GbpD, a Dictyostelium discoideum guanine exchange factor specific for Rap1, has been implicated in adhesion, cell polarity, and chemotaxis. Cells overexpressing GbpD are flat, exhibit strongly increased cell-substrate attachment, and extend many bifurcated and lateral pseudopodia. Phg2, a serine/threonine-specific kinase, mediates Rap1-regulated cell-substrate adhesion, but not cell polarity or chemotaxis. In this study we demonstrate that overexpression of GbpD in pi3k1/2-null cells does not induce the adhesion and cell morphology phenotype. Furthermore we show that Rap1 directly binds to the Ras binding domain of PI3K, and overexpression of GbpD leads to strongly enhanced PIP3 levels. Consistently, upon overexpression of the PIP3-degradating enzyme PTEN in GbpD-overexpressing cells, the strong adhesion and cell morphology phenotype is largely lost. These results indicate that a GbpD/Rap/PI3K pathway helps control pseudopod formation and cell polarity. As in Rap-regulated pseudopod formation in Dictyostelium, mammalian Rap and PI3K are essential for determining neuronal polarity, suggesting that the Rap/PI3K pathway is a conserved module regulating the establishment of cell polarity.

Koonce, M. P. and R. Graf (2010). "Dictyostelium discoideum: a model system for ultrastructural analyses of cell motility and development." Methods Cell Biol 96: 197-216.
	Dictyostelium occupies an interesting niche in the grand scheme of model organisms. On the one hand, it is a compact, highly motile single cell that presents numerous opportunities to investigate the fundamental mechanisms of signal transduction, cell movement, and pathogen infection. However, upon starvation, individual cells enter a developmental pathway that involves cell aggregation, cell-cell adhesion, pattern formation, and differentiation. Thus, Dictyostelium is also well known as a basic model for studying developmental processes. Electron microscopy (EM) has played a large role in both the unicellular and the multicellular life stages, for example, providing image detail for structure/function relationships of cytoskeletal proteins, the deposition of cellulose fibrils in maturing spores, and the identification of intercellular junctional complexes. Powerful combinations of robust molecular genetic tools, high-resolution light microscopy, and EM methods make this organism an attractive model for imaging dynamic cell processes. This chapter serves to highlight the past and current EM approaches that have advanced our understanding of how cells and proteins function.

Knecht, D. A., et al. (2010). "Cucurbitacin I inhibits cell motility by indirectly interfering with actin dynamics." PLoS One 5(11): e14039.
	BACKGROUND: Cucurbitacins are plant natural products that inhibit activation of the Janus kinase 2 (JAK2)/signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) pathway by an unknown mechanism. They are also known to cause changes in the organization of the actin cytoskeleton. METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We show that cucurbitacin I potently inhibits the migration of Madin-Darby canine kidney (MDCK) cell sheets during wound closure, as well as the random motility of B16-F1 mouse melanoma cells, but has no effect on movement of Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae. Upon treatment of MDCK or B16-F1 cells with cucurbitacin I, there is a very rapid cessation of motility and gradual accumulation of filamentous actin aggregates. The cellular effect of the compound is similar to that observed when cells are treated with the actin filament-stabilizing agent jasplakinolide. However, we found that, unlike jasplakinolide or phallacidin, cucurbitacin I does not directly stabilize actin filaments. In in vitro actin depolymerization experiments, cucurbitacin I had no effect on the rate of actin filament disassembly at the nanomolar concentrations that inhibit cell migration. At elevated concentrations, the depolymerization rate was also unaffected, although there was a delay in the initiation of depolymerization. Therefore, cucurbitacin I targets some factor involved in cellular actin dynamics other than actin itself. Two candidate proteins that play roles in actin depolymerization are the actin-severing proteins cofilin and gelsolin. Cucurbitacin I possesses electrophilic reactivity that may lead to chemical modification of its target protein, as suggested by structure-activity relationship data. However, mass spectrometry revealed no evidence for modification of purified cofilin or gelsolin by cucurbitacin I. CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: Cucurbitacin I results in accumulation of actin filaments in cells by a unique indirect mechanism. Furthermore, the proximal target of cucurbitacin I relevant to cell migration is unlikely to be the same one involved in activation of the JAK2/STAT3 pathway.

King, J. S., et al. (2010). "SCAR/WAVE is activated at mitosis and drives myosin-independent cytokinesis." J Cell Sci 123(Pt 13): 2246-2255.
	Cell division requires the tight coordination of multiple cytoskeletal pathways. The best understood of these involves myosin-II-dependent constriction around the cell equator, but both Dictyostelium and mammalian cells also use a parallel, adhesion-dependent mechanism to generate furrows. We show that the actin nucleation factor SCAR/WAVE is strongly activated during Dictyostelium cytokinesis. This activation localises to large polar protrusions, driving separation of the daughter cells. This continues for 10 minutes after division before the daughter cells revert to normal random motility, indicating that this is a tightly regulated process. We demonstrate that SCAR activity is essential to drive myosin-II-independent cytokinesis, and stabilises the furrow, ensuring symmetrical division. SCAR is also responsible for the generation of MiDASes, mitosis-specific actin-rich adhesions. Loss of SCAR in both Dictyostelium and Drosophila leads to a similar mitotic phenotype, with severe mitotic blebbing, indicating conserved functionality. We also find that the microtubule end-binding protein EB1 is required to restrict SCAR localisation and direct migration. EB1-null cells also exhibit decreased adhesion during mitosis. Our data reveal a spindle-directed signalling pathway that regulates SCAR activity, migration and adhesion at mitosis.

King, J., et al. (2010). "Genetic control of lithium sensitivity and regulation of inositol biosynthetic genes." PLoS One 5(6): e11151.
	Lithium (Li(+)) is a common treatment for bipolar mood disorder, a major psychiatric illness with a lifetime prevalence of more than 1%. Risk of bipolar disorder is heavily influenced by genetic predisposition, but is a complex genetic trait and, to date, genetic studies have provided little insight into its molecular origins. An alternative approach is to investigate the genetics of Li(+) sensitivity. Using the social amoeba Dictyostelium, we previously identified prolyl oligopeptidase (PO) as a modulator of Li(+) sensitivity. In a link to the clinic, PO enzyme activity is altered in bipolar disorder patients. Further studies demonstrated that PO is a negative regulator of inositol(1,4,5)trisphosphate (IP(3)) synthesis, a Li(+) sensitive intracellular signal. However, it was unclear how PO could influence either Li(+) sensitivity or risk of bipolar disorder. Here we show that in both Dictyostelium and cultured human cells PO acts via Multiple Inositol Polyphosphate Phosphatase (Mipp1) to control gene expression. This reveals a novel, gene regulatory network that modulates inositol metabolism and Li(+) sensitivity. Among its targets is the inositol monophosphatase gene IMPA2, which has also been associated with risk of bipolar disorder in some family studies, and our observations offer a cellular signalling pathway in which PO activity and IMPA2 gene expression converge.

Kimura, K., et al. (2010). "Developmental significance of cyanide-resistant respiration under stressed conditions: experiments in Dictyostelium cells." Dev Growth Differ 52(7): 645-656.
	We have previously reported that benzohydroxamic acid (BHAM), a potent inhibitor of cyanide (CN)-resistant respiration mediated by alternative oxidase (AOX), induces formation of unique cell masses (i.e., stalk-like cells with a large vacuole and thick cell wall) in starved Dictyostelium cells. Unexpectedly, however, aox-null cells prepared by homologous recombination exhibited normal development under normal culture conditions on agar, indicating that BHAM-induced stalk formation is not solely attributable to inhibition of CN-resistant respiration. This also suggests that a series of pharmacological approaches in the field of life science has serious limitations. Under stress (e.g., in submerged culture), starved aox-null cells exhibited slightly delayed aggregation compared with parental Ax-2 cells; most cells remained as loose aggregates even after prolonged incubation. Also, the developmental defects of aox-null cells became more marked upon incubation for 30 min just after starvation in the presence of &gt;/= 1.75 mmol/L H(2)O(2). This seems to indicate that CN-resistant respiration could mitigate cellular damage through reactive oxygen species (ROS), because AOX has a potential role in reduction of ROS production. Starved aox-null cells did not develop in the presence of 5 mmol/L KCN (which completely inhibited the conventional cytochrome-mediated respiration) and remained as non-aggregated single cells on agar even after prolonged incubation. Somewhat surprisingly, however, parental Ax-2 cells were found to develop normally, forming fruiting bodies even in the presence of 10 mmol/L KCN. Taken together, these results suggest that CN-resistant respiration might compensate for the production of adenosine tri-phosphate via oxidative phosphorylation.

Khare, A. and G. Shaulsky (2010). "Cheating by exploitation of developmental prestalk patterning in Dictyostelium discoideum." PLoS Genet 6(2): e1000854.
	The cooperative developmental system of the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum is susceptible to exploitation by cheaters-strains that make more than their fair share of spores in chimerae. Laboratory screens in Dictyostelium have shown that the genetic potential for facultative cheating is high, and field surveys have shown that cheaters are abundant in nature, but the cheating mechanisms are largely unknown. Here we describe cheater C (chtC), a strong facultative cheater mutant that cheats by affecting prestalk differentiation. The chtC gene is developmentally regulated and its mRNA becomes stalk-enriched at the end of development. chtC mutants are defective in maintaining the prestalk cell fate as some of their prestalk cells transdifferentiate into prespore cells, but that defect does not affect gross developmental morphology or sporulation efficiency. In chimerae between wild-type and chtC mutant cells, the wild-type cells preferentially give rise to prestalk cells, and the chtC mutants increase their representation in the spore mass. Mixing chtC mutants with other cell-type proportioning mutants revealed that the cheating is directly related to the prestalk-differentiation propensity of the victim. These findings illustrate that a cheater can victimize cooperative strains by exploiting an established developmental pathway.

Kessin, R. H. (2010). "Two different genomes that produce the same result." Genome Biol 11(4): 114.
	Despite considerable differences in genomic sequence, the developmental program of gene expression between two similar Dictyostelium species is remarkably similar.

Kamimura, Y. and P. N. Devreotes (2010). "Phosphoinositide-dependent protein kinase (PDK) activity regulates phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate-dependent and -independent protein kinase B activation and chemotaxis." J Biol Chem 285(11): 7938-7946.
	Chemotactic cells must sense shallow extracellular gradients and produce localized intracellular responses. We previously showed that the temporal and spatial activation of two protein kinase B (PKB) homologues, PkbA and PkbR1, in Dictyostelium discoideum by phosphorylation of activation loops (ALs) and hydrophobic motifs had important roles in chemotaxis. We found that hydrophobic motif phosphorylation depended on regulation of TorC2 (target of rapamycin complex 2); however, the regulation of AL phosphorylation remains to be determined at a molecular level. Here, we show that two PDK (phosphoinositide-dependent protein kinase) homologues, PdkA and PdkB, function as the key AL kinases. Cells lacking both PdkA and PdkB are defective in PKB activation, chemotaxis, and fruiting body formation upon nutrient deprivation. The pleckstrin homology domain of PdkA is sufficient to localize it to the membrane, but transient activation of PdkA is independent of PIP(3) as well as TorC2 and dispensable for full function. These results confirm the importance of the TorC2-PDK-PKB pathway in chemotaxis and point to a novel mechanism of regulation of PDKs by chemoattractant.

Kabir, M., et al. (2010). "Reverse engineering gene regulatory network from microarray data using linear time-variant model." BMC Bioinformatics 11 Suppl 1: S56.
	BACKGROUND: Gene regulatory network is an abstract mapping of gene regulations in living cells that can help to predict the system behavior of living organisms. Such prediction capability can potentially lead to the development of improved diagnostic tests and therapeutics. DNA microarrays, which measure the expression level of thousands of genes in parallel, constitute the numeric seed for the inference of gene regulatory networks. In this paper, we have proposed a new approach for inferring gene regulatory networks from time-series gene expression data using linear time-variant model. Here, Self-Adaptive Differential Evolution, a versatile and robust Evolutionary Algorithm, is used as the learning paradigm. RESULTS: To assess the potency of the proposed work, a well known nonlinear synthetic network has been used. The reconstruction method has inferred this synthetic network topology and the associated regulatory parameters with high accuracy from both the noise-free and noisy time-series data. For validation purposes, the proposed approach is also applied to the simulated expression dataset of cAMP oscillations in Dictyostelium discoideum and has proved it's strength in finding the correct regulations. The strength of this work has also been verified by analyzing the real expression dataset of SOS DNA repair system in Escherichia coli and it has succeeded in finding more correct and reasonable regulations as compared to various existing works. CONCLUSION: By the proposed approach, the gene interaction networks have been inferred in an efficient manner from both the synthetic, simulated cAMP oscillation expression data and real expression data. The computational time of this approach is also considerably smaller, which makes it to be more suitable for larger network reconstruction. Thus the proposed approach can serve as an initiate for the future researches regarding the associated area.

Jowhar, D., et al. (2010). "Open access microfluidic device for the study of cell migration during chemotaxis." Integr Biol (Camb) 2(11-12): 648-658.
	Cells sense and interpret chemical gradients, and respond by localized responses that lead to directed migration. An open microfluidic device (OMD) was developed to provide quantitative information on both the gradient and morphological changes that occurred as cells crawled through various microfabricated channels. This device overcame problems that many current devices have been plagued with, such as complicated cell loading, media evaporation and channel blockage by air bubbles. We used a micropipette to set up stable gradients formed by passive diffusion and thus avoided confounding cellular responses produced by shear forces. Two versions of the OMD are reported here: one device that has channels with widths of 6, 8, 10 and 12 mum, while the other has two large 100 mum channels to minimize cellular interaction with lateral walls. These experiments compared the migration rates and qualitative behavior of Dictyostelium discoideum cells responding to measurable cAMP and folic acid gradients in small and large channels. We report on the influence that polarity has on a cell's ability to migrate when confined in a channel. Polarized cells that migrated to cAMP were significantly faster than the unpolarized cells that crawled toward folic acid. Unpolarized cells in wide channels often strayed off course, yet migrated faster than unpolarized cells in confined channels. Cells in channels farthest from the micropipette migrated through the channels at rates similar to cells in channels with higher concentrations, suggesting that cell speed was independent of mean concentration. Lastly, it was found that the polarized cells could easily change migration direction even when only the leading edge of the cell was exposed to a lateral gradient.

Iwai, S. and T. Q. Uyeda (2010). "Myosin-actin interaction in Dictyostelium cells revealed by GFP-based strain sensor and validated linear spectral unmixing." Cytometry A 77(8): 743-750.
	Myosin is an actin-based motor protein that is involved in a wide range of cellular motile processes. Although in vitro properties of the myosin-actin interaction have been extensively studied, the interaction in vivo remains poorly understood. Recently, we developed a GFP-based strain sensor termed PriSSM (PRIM-based strain sensor module), by using the proximity imaging (PRIM) technique, which detects spectral changes of two GFP molecules that are in direct contact. Using PriSSM-myosin II fusion proteins, the interaction between myosin II and F-actin can be detected in Dictyostelium cells. In the spectroscopic measurements of PriSSM, to decompose the measured spectra of the cells expressing the sensor proteins into the contributions from the sensor and the background autofluorescence, we applied the linear spectral unmixing approach, which was based on the assumption that the errors at each wavelength were independent. Cellular autofluorescence, however, often includes systematic errors, so that the unmixing procedures might lead to biased estimates. Here, to validate our spectral unmixing procedures, we estimate the possible maximum errors in the fluorescence ratio values that are obtained by unmixing spectra including such systematic errors. This estimation provided a general criterion to validate the results obtained by linear unmixing of spectra including serially correlated error terms. Using the proposed criterion and PriSSM-myosin II fusion proteins, we examined the interaction between myosin II and F-actin in Dictyostelium cells under several different conditions. The spectroscopic results, together with the microscopic observations of the cells expressing the proteins, suggest that the formation of myosin filaments through the tail region has only a slight effect on binding to F-actin but has significant effects on the cortical localization of myosin II.

Ishikawa-Ankerhold, H. C., et al. (2010). "Genetic evidence for concerted control of actin dynamics in cytokinesis, endocytic traffic, and cell motility by coronin and Aip1." Cytoskeleton (Hoboken) 67(7): 442-455.
	Coronin and actin-interacting protein 1 (Aip1) are actin-binding proteins that by different mechanisms inhibit actin polymerization or enhance the disassembly of actin filaments. Cells of Dictyostelium discoideum lacking both proteins are retarded in growth and early development and often fail to proceed to fruiting body formation. Coronin/Aip1-null cells show numerous surface protrusions enriched in filamentous actin and cofilin. We show that the double-null cells are characterized by an increase in filamentous actin that causes a thickening of the cell cortex. This imbalance has severe consequences for processes that rely on the dynamic reorganization of the actin cytoskeleton, such as cell motility, cytokinesis and endocytosis. Although cell motility is considerably slowed down, the double-mutant cells are still capable of orientating in a gradient of chemoattractant. The cytokinesis defect is caused by the lack of proper cleavage furrow formation, a defect that is partially rescued by low concentrations of latrunculin A, an inhibitor of actin polymerization. Furthermore, we demonstrate that the disassembly of the actin coat after phagocytic or macropinocytic uptake is significantly delayed in the double-mutant cells. Our results prove that coronin and Aip1 are important effectors that act together in maintaining the balance of actin polymerization and depolymerization in living cells.

Hu, B., et al. (2010). "Phenomenological approach to eukaryotic chemotactic efficiency." Phys Rev E Stat Nonlin Soft Matter Phys 81(3 Pt 1): 031906.
	Eukaryotic cells are capable of detecting small chemical gradients for a wide range of background concentrations. Ultimately, fluctuations place a limit on gradient sensing and recent work has focused on the role of stochastic receptor occupancy as one possible limiting factor. Here, we use a phenomenological approach to add spontaneous motility fluctuations to receptor noise and predict the directional statistics of eukaryotic chemotaxis. Specifically, an Ito diffusion equation with direction-dependent multiplicative noise is developed and analytically studied. We show that our approach can naturally accommodate recent experimental data for the chemotaxis of the social amoeba Dictyostelium.

Hayashi, Y., et al. (2010). "Host range of obligate intracellular bacterium Parachlamydia acanthamoebae." Microbiol Immunol 54(11): 707-713.
	The obligate intracellular bacterium Parachlamydia acanthamoebae is a potential human pathogen, but the host range of the bacteria remains unknown. Hence, the growth of P. acanthamoebae Bn in protozoa (Tetrahymena, Acanthamoeba, Dictyostelium) and mammalian cells (HEp-2, Vero, THP-1, PMA-stimulated THP-1, Jurkat) was assessed using an AIU assay which had been previously established by the current authors. P. acanthamoebae grew in Acanthamoeba but not in the other cell types. The growth was also confirmed using DAPI staining, FISH and TEM. These results indicate that the host range of P. acanthamoebae is limited.

Hatayama, M. and J. Aruga (2010). "Characterization of the tandem CWCH2 sequence motif: a hallmark of inter-zinc finger interactions." BMC Evol Biol 10: 53.
	BACKGROUND: The C2H2 zinc finger (ZF) domain is widely conserved among eukaryotic proteins. In Zic/Gli/Zap1 C2H2 ZF proteins, the two N-terminal ZFs form a single structural unit by sharing a hydrophobic core. This structural unit defines a new motif comprised of two tryptophan side chains at the center of the hydrophobic core. Because each tryptophan residue is located between the two cysteine residues of the C2H2 motif, we have named this structure the tandem CWCH2 (tCWCH2) motif. RESULTS: Here, we characterized 587 tCWCH2-containing genes using data derived from public databases. We categorized genes into 11 classes including Zic/Gli/Glis, Arid2/Rsc9, PacC, Mizf, Aebp2, Zap1/ZafA, Fungl, Zfp106, Twincl, Clr1, and Fungl-4ZF, based on sequence similarity, domain organization, and functional similarities. tCWCH2 motifs are mostly found in organisms belonging to the Opisthokonta (metazoa, fungi, and choanoflagellates) and Amoebozoa (amoeba, Dictyostelium discoideum). By comparison, the C2H2 ZF motif is distributed widely among the eukaryotes. The structure and organization of the tCWCH2 motif, its phylogenetic distribution, and molecular phylogenetic analysis suggest that prototypical tCWCH2 genes existed in the Opisthokonta ancestor. Within-group or between-group comparisons of the tCWCH2 amino acid sequence identified three additional sequence features (site-specific amino acid frequencies, longer linker sequence between two C2H2 ZFs, and frequent extra-sequences within C2H2 ZF motifs). CONCLUSION: These features suggest that the tCWCH2 motif is a specialized motif involved in inter-zinc finger interactions.

Guetta, D., et al. (2010). "FYVE-dependent endosomal targeting of an arrestin-related protein in amoeba." PLoS One 5(12): e15249.
	BACKGROUND: Visual and beta-arrestins are scaffolding proteins involved in the regulation of receptor-dependent intracellular signaling and their trafficking. The arrestin superfamilly includes several arrestin domain-containing proteins and the structurally related protein Vps26. In Dictyostelium discoideum, the arrestin-domain containing proteins form a family of six members, namely AdcA to -F. In contrast to canonical arrestins, Dictyostelium Adc proteins show a more complex architecture, as they possess, in addition to the arrestin core, other domains, such as C2, FYVE, LIM, MIT and SAM, which potentially mediate selective interactions with either lipids or proteins. METHODOLOGY AND PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: A detailed analysis of AdcA has been performed. AdcA extends on both sides of the arrestin core, in particular by a FYVE domain which mediates selective interactions with PI(3)P, as disclosed by intrinsic fluorescence measurements and lipid overlay assays. Localization studies showed an enrichment of tagged- and endogenous AdcA on the rim of early macropinosomes and phagosomes. This vesicular distribution relies on a functional FYVE domain. Our data also show that the arrestin core binds the ADP-ribosylation factor ArfA, the unique amoebal Arf member, in its GDP-bound conformation. SIGNIFICANCE: This work describes one of the 6 arrestin domain-containing proteins of Dictyostelium, a novel and atypical member of the arrestin clan. It provides the basis for a better understanding of arrestin-related protein involvement in trafficking processes and for further studies on the expanding roles of arrestins in eukaryotes.

Gruver, J. S., et al. (2010). "Bimodal analysis reveals a general scaling law governing nondirected and chemotactic cell motility." Biophys J 99(2): 367-376.
	Cell motility is a fundamental process with relevance to embryonic development, immune response, and metastasis. Cells move either spontaneously, in a nondirected fashion, or in response to chemotactic signals, in a directed fashion. Even though they are often studied separately, both forms of motility share many complex processes at the molecular and subcellular scale, e.g., orchestrated cytoskeletal rearrangements and polarization. In addition, at the cellular level both types of motility include persistent runs interspersed with reorientation pauses. Because there is a great range of variability in motility among different cell types, a key challenge in the field is to integrate these multiscale processes into a coherent framework. We analyzed the motility of Dictyostelium cells with bimodal analysis, a method that compares time spent in persistent versus reorientation mode. Unexpectedly, we found that reorientation time is coupled with persistent time in an inverse correlation and, surprisingly, the inverse correlation holds for both nondirected and chemotactic motility, so that the full range of Dictyostelium motility can be described by a single scaling relationship. Additionally, we found an identical scaling relationship for three human cell lines, indicating that the coupling of reorientation and persistence holds across species and making it possible to describe the complexity of cell motility in a surprisingly general and simple manner. With this new perspective, we analyzed the motility of Dictyostelium mutants, and found four in which the coupling between two modes was altered. Our results point to a fundamental underlying principle, described by a simple scaling law, unifying mechanisms of eukaryotic cell motility at several scales.

Gregor, T., et al. (2010). "The onset of collective behavior in social amoebae." Science 328(5981): 1021-1025.
	In the social amoebae Dictyostelium discoideum, periodic synthesis and release of extracellular cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate (cAMP) guide cell aggregation and commitment to form fruiting bodies. It is unclear whether these oscillations are an intrinsic property of individual cells or if they exist only as a population-level phenomenon. Here, we showed by live-cell imaging of intact cell populations that pulses originate from a discrete location despite constant exchange of cells to and from the region. In a perfusion chamber, both isolated single cells and cell populations switched from quiescence to rhythmic activity depending on the concentration of extracellular cAMP. A quantitative analysis showed that stochastic pulsing of individual cells below the threshold concentration of extracellular cAMP plays a critical role in the onset of collective behavior.

Greene, D. M., et al. (2010). "Control of cyclin C levels during development of Dictyostelium." PLoS One 5(5): e10543.
	BACKGROUND: Cdk8 and its partner cyclin C form part of the mediator complex which links the basal transcription machinery to regulatory proteins. The pair are required for correct regulation of a subset of genes and have been implicated in control of development in a number of organisms including the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum. When feeding, Dictyostelium amoebae are unicellular but upon starvation they aggregate to form a multicellular structure which develops into a fruiting body containing spores. Cells in which the gene encoding Cdk8 has been deleted fail to enter aggregates due to a failure of early gene expression. PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We have monitored the expression levels of cyclin C protein during development and find levels decrease after the multicellular mound is formed. This decrease is triggered by extracellular cAMP that, in turn, is working in part through an increase in intracellular cAMP. The loss of cyclin C is coincident with a reduction in the association of Cdk8 with a high molecular weight complex in the nucleus. Overexpression of cyclin C and Cdk8 lead to an increased rate of early development, consistent with the levels being rate limiting. CONCLUSIONS: Overall these results show that both cyclin C and Cdk8 are regulated during development in response to extracellular signals and the levels of these proteins are important in controlling the timing of developmental processes. These findings have important implications for the role of these proteins in controlling development, suggesting that they are targets for developmental signals to regulate gene expression.

Glenn, A. E., et al. (2010). "Comparative genomic and phylogenetic investigation of the xenobiotic metabolizing arylamine N-acetyltransferase enzyme family." FEBS Lett 584(14): 3158-3164.
	Arylamine N-acetyltransferases (NATs) are xenobiotic metabolizing enzymes characterized in several bacteria and eukaryotic organisms. We report a comprehensive phylogenetic analysis employing an exhaustive dataset of NAT-homologous sequences recovered through inspection of 2445 genomes. We describe the first NAT homologues in viruses, archaea, protists, many fungi and invertebrates, providing complete annotations in line with the consensus nomenclature. Contrary to the NAT genes of vertebrates, introns are commonly found within the homologous coding regions of lower eukaryotes. The NATs of fungi and higher animals are distinctly monophyletic, but evidence supports a mixed phylogeny of NATs among bacteria, protists and possibly some invertebrates.

Giusti, C., et al. (2010). "Autophagic cell death in Dictyostelium requires the receptor histidine kinase DhkM." Mol Biol Cell 21(11): 1825-1835.
	Dictyostelium constitutes a genetically tractable model for the analysis of autophagic cell death (ACD). During ACD, Dictyostelium cells first transform into paddle cells and then become round, synthesize cellulose, vacuolize, and die. Through random insertional mutagenesis, we identified the receptor histidine kinase DhkM as being essential for ACD. Surprisingly, different DhkM mutants showed distinct nonvacuolizing ACD phenotypes. One class of mutants arrested ACD at the paddle cell stage, perhaps through a dominant-negative effect. Other mutants, however, progressed further in the ACD program. They underwent rounding and cellulose synthesis but stopped before vacuolization. Moreover, they underwent clonogenic but not morphological cell death. Exogenous 8-bromo-cAMP restored vacuolization and death. A role for a membrane receptor at a late stage of the ACD pathway is puzzling, raising questions as to which ligand it is a receptor for and which moieties it phosphorylates. Together, DhkM is the most downstream-known molecule required for this model ACD, and its distinct mutants genetically separate previously undissociated late cell death events.

Giusti, C., et al. (2010). "A second signal for autophagic cell death?" Autophagy 6(6): 823-824.
	Dictyostelium cells in monolayers in vitro lend themselves well to a study of autophagic cell death (ACD). There is no apoptosis machinery in the protist Dictyostelium, no caspase nor Bcl-2 family members (except a paracaspase whose inactivation does not alter cell death), thus there is no apoptosis that could interfere with, or substitute for, nonapoptotic cell death. Also, Dictyostelium, a eukaryote, has a haploid genome, which facilitates random insertional mutagenesis.

Gerisch, G. (2010). "Self-organizing actin waves that simulate phagocytic cup structures." PMC Biophys 3(1): 7.
	This report deals with actin waves that are spontaneously generated on the planar, substrate-attached surface of Dictyostelium cells. These waves have the following characteristics. (1) They are circular structures of varying shape, capable of changing the direction of propagation. (2) The waves propagate by treadmilling with a recovery of actin incorporation after photobleaching of less than 10 seconds. (3) The waves are associated with actin-binding proteins in an ordered 3-dimensional organization: with myosin-IB at the front and close to the membrane, the Arp2/3 complex throughout the wave, and coronin at the cytoplasmic face and back of the wave. Coronin is a marker of disassembling actin structures. (4) The waves separate two areas of the cell cortex that differ in actin structure and phosphoinositide composition of the membrane. The waves arise at the border of membrane areas rich in phosphatidylinositol (3,4,5) trisphosphate (PIP3). The inhibition of PIP3 synthesis reversibly inhibits wave formation. (5) The actin wave and PIP3 patterns resemble 2-dimensional projections of phagocytic cups, suggesting that they are involved in the scanning of surfaces for particles to be taken up.PACS Codes: 87.16.Ln, 87.19.lp, 89.75.Fb.

Galardi-Castilla, M., et al. (2010). "The Dictyostelium discoideum acaA gene is transcribed from alternative promoters during aggregation and multicellular development." PLoS One 5(10): e13286.
	BACKGROUND: Extracellular cAMP is a key extracellular signaling molecule that regulates aggregation, cell differentiation and morphogenesis during multi-cellular development of the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum. This molecule is produced by three different adenylyl cyclases, encoded by the genes acaA, acrA and acgA, expressed at different stages of development and in different structures. METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: This article describes the characterization of the promoter region of the acaA gene, showing that it is transcribed from three different alternative promoters. The distal promoter, promoter 1, is active during the aggregation process while the more proximal promoters are active in tip-organiser and posterior regions of the structures. A DNA fragment containing the three promoters drove expression to these same regions and similar results were obtained by in situ hybridization. Analyses of mRNA expression by quantitative RT-PCR with specific primers for each of the three transcripts also demonstrated their different temporal patterns of expression. CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: The existence of an aggregation-specific promoter can be associated with the use of cAMP as chemo-attractant molecule, which is specific for some Dictyostelium species. Expression at late developmental stages indicates that adenylyl cyclase A might play a more important role in post-aggregative development than previously considered.

Fuller, D., et al. (2010). "External and internal constraints on eukaryotic chemotaxis." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 107(21): 9656-9659.
	Chemotaxis, the chemically guided movement of cells, plays an important role in several biological processes including cancer, wound healing, and embryogenesis. Chemotacting cells are able to sense shallow chemical gradients where the concentration of chemoattractant differs by only a few percent from one side of the cell to the other, over a wide range of local concentrations. Exactly what limits the chemotactic ability of these cells is presently unclear. Here we determine the chemotactic response of Dictyostelium cells to exponential gradients of varying steepness and local concentration of the chemoattractant cAMP. We find that the cells are sensitive to the steepness of the gradient as well as to the local concentration. Using information theory techniques, we derive a formula for the mutual information between the input gradient and the spatial distribution of bound receptors and also compute the mutual information between the input gradient and the motility direction in the experiments. A comparison between these quantities reveals that for shallow gradients, in which the concentration difference between the back and the front of a 10-mum-diameter cell is &lt;5%, and for small local concentrations (&lt;10 nM) the intracellular information loss is insignificant. Thus, external fluctuations due to the finite number of receptors dominate and limit the chemotactic response. For steeper gradients and higher local concentrations, the intracellular information processing is suboptimal and results in a smaller mutual information between the input gradient and the motility direction than would have been predicted from the ligand-receptor binding process.

Frye, J. J., et al. (2010). "Insights into the importance of hydrogen bonding in the gamma-phosphate binding pocket of myosin: structural and functional studies of serine 236." Biochemistry 49(23): 4897-4907.
	The active site of myosin contains a group of highly conserved amino acid residues whose roles in nucleotide hydrolysis and energy transduction might appear to be obvious from the initial structural and kinetic analyses but become less clear on deeper investigation. One such residue is Ser236 (Dictyostelium discoideum myosin II numbering) which was proposed to be involved in a hydrogen transfer network during gamma-phosphate hydrolysis of ATP, which would imply a critical function in ATP hydrolysis and motility. The S236A mutant protein shows a comparatively small decrease in hydrolytic activity and motility, and thus this residue does not appear to be essential. To understand better the contribution of Ser236 to the function of myosin, structural and kinetic studies have been performed on the S236A mutant protein. The structures of the D. discoideum motor domain (S1dC) S236A mutant protein in complex with magnesium pyrophosphate, MgAMPPNP, and MgADP.vanadate have been determined. In contrast to the previous structure of wild-type S1dC, the S236A.MgAMPPNP complex crystallized in the closed state. Furthermore, transient-state kinetics showed a 4-fold reduction of the nucleotide release step, suggesting that the mutation stabilizes a closed active site. The structures show that a water molecule approximately adopts the location of the missing hydroxyl of Ser236 in the magnesium pyrophosphate and MgAMPPNP structures. This study suggests that the S236A mutant myosin proceeds via a different structural mechanism than wild-type myosin, where the alternate mechanism is able to maintain near normal transient-state kinetic values.

Friedberg, F. and F. Rivero (2010). "Single and multiple CH (calponin homology) domain containing multidomain proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum: an inventory." Mol Biol Rep 37(6): 2853-2862.
	We present an inventory of single or multiple calponin homology (CH) domain containing proteins of Dictyostelium discoideum. A multiple alignment and a phylogenetic tree of all 60 CH domains found in 36 proteins showed that most CH domains can be assigned to one of 6 types. We have then distributed the proteins into several classes according to the type and arrangement of the CH domains. Most proteins belong to the class of ABD (actin-binding domain)-forming CH tandems (CH1-CH2) of the alpha-actinin and fimbrin families or to the class of CH3 domain-bearing proteins. There are a few examples of proteins with a single CH1 or CH2 domain, one with a CH1-CH1 doublet and a single representative of the CHe class of microtubule-binding proteins. A comparison with CH domain proteins in Homo sapiens suggests that while the individual domains are available in both species, the existence of identical multidomain proteins in toto is rare. Fimbrin 1, alpha-actinin and EB1 appear as perfect orthologs in both species, whereas filamin and interaptin may represent ancestral forms of human filamin and nesprins. In four more cases (NAV/Unc-53-, smoothelin-, transgelin- and Gas2-related proteins) functional data are needed in order to establish a potential relationship with a human counterpart. Although extensive data exist for a few of the D. discoideum CH proteins, most remain to be characterized and our analysis may help predicting some of their properties.

Frenkiel-Krispin, D., et al. (2010). "Structural analysis of a metazoan nuclear pore complex reveals a fused concentric ring architecture." J Mol Biol 395(3): 578-586.
	The sole gateway for molecular exchange between the cytoplasm and the nucleus is the nuclear pore complex (NPC). This large supramolecular assembly mediates transport of cargo into and out of the nucleus and fuse the inner and outer nuclear membranes to form an aqueous translocation channel. The NPC is composed of eight proteinaceous asymmetric units forming a pseudo-8-fold symmetric passage. Due to its shear size, complexity, and plastic nature, dissecting the high-resolution three-dimensional structure of the NPC in its hydrated state is a formidable challenge. Toward this goal, we applied cryo-electron tomography to spread nuclear envelopes from Xenopus oocytes. To compensate for perturbations of the 8-fold symmetry of individual NPCs, we performed symmetry-independent asymmetric unit averaging of three-dimensional tomographic NPC volumes to eventually yield a refined model at 6.4 nm resolution. This approach revealed novel structural features, particularly in the spoke-ring complex and luminal domains. Fused concentric ring architecture of the spoke-ring complex was found along the translocation channel. Additionally, a comparison of the refined Xenopus model to that of its Dictyostelium homologue yielded similar pore diameters at the level of the three canonical rings, although the Xenopus NPC was found to be 30% taller than the Dictyostelium pore. This discrepancy is attributed primarily to the relatively low homology and different organization of some nucleoporins in the Dictyostelium genome as compared to that of vertebrates. Nevertheless, the experimental conditions impose a preferred axial orientation of the NPCs within spread Xenopus oocyte nuclear envelopes. This may at least in part explain the increased height of the reconstructed vertebrate NPCs compared to those obtained from tomographic reconstruction of intact Dictyostelium nuclei.

Franklin, A., et al. (2010). "WD repeat domain of Dictyostelium myosin heavy chain kinase C functions in both substrate targeting and cellular localization." Eukaryot Cell 9(2): 344-349.
	Myosin II disassembly in Dictyostelium discoideum is regulated by three structurally related myosin heavy chain kinases (myosin II heavy chain kinase A [MHCK-A], -B, and -C). We show that the WD repeat domain of MHCK-C is unique in that it mediates both substrate targeting and subcellular localization, revealing a target for regulation that is distinct from those of the other MHCKs.

Fountain, S. J. (2010). "Neurotransmitter receptor homologues of Dictyostelium discoideum." J Mol Neurosci 41(2): 263-266.
	The social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum is a genetically amenable eukaryotic cell which displays many animal cell traits and has been used to study cellular signalling for over 30 years. Recently studies have highlighted the roles that molecules associated with synaptic transmission in animals, such as glutamate, GABA and ATP play in cellular differentiation and homeostasis in this simple organism. This short review summarises the evidence for the existence of both ionotropic and metabotropic families of neurotransmitter receptors in Dictyostelium.

Flowers, J. M., et al. (2010). "Variation, sex, and social cooperation: molecular population genetics of the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum." PLoS Genet 6(7): e1001013.
	Dictyostelium discoideum is a eukaryotic microbial model system for multicellular development, cell-cell signaling, and social behavior. Key models of social evolution require an understanding of genetic relationships between individuals across the genome or possibly at specific genes, but the nature of variation within D. discoideum is largely unknown. We re-sequenced 137 gene fragments in wild North American strains of D. discoideum and examined the levels and patterns of nucleotide variation in this social microbial species. We observe surprisingly low levels of nucleotide variation in D. discoideum across these strains, with a mean nucleotide diversity (pi) of 0.08%, and no strong population stratification among North American strains. We also do not find any clear relationship between nucleotide divergence between strains and levels of social dominance and kin discrimination. Kin discrimination experiments, however, show that strains collected from the same location show greater ability to distinguish self from non-self than do strains from different geographic areas. This suggests that a greater ability to recognize self versus non-self may arise among strains that are more likely to encounter each other in nature, which would lead to preferential formation of fruiting bodies with clonemates and may prevent the evolution of cheating behaviors within D. discoideum populations. Finally, despite the fact that sex has rarely been observed in this species, we document a rapid decay of linkage disequilibrium between SNPs, the presence of recombinant genotypes among natural strains, and high estimates of the population recombination parameter rho. The SNP data indicate that recombination is widespread within D. discoideum and that sex as a form of social interaction is likely to be an important aspect of the life cycle.

Fiore-Donno, A. M., et al. (2010). "Deep phylogeny and evolution of slime moulds (mycetozoa)." Protist 161(1): 55-70.
	Mycetozoa, characterized by spore-bearing fruiting bodies, are the most diverse Amoebozoa. They traditionally comprise three taxa: Myxogastria, Dictyostelia and Protostelia. Myxogastria and Dictyostelia typically have multispored fruiting bodies, but controversy exists whether they are related or arose independently from different unicellular ancestors. Protostelid slime moulds, with single-spored fruiting bodies, are possible evolutionary intermediates between them and typical amoebae, but have received almost no molecular study. Protostelid morphology is so varied that they might not be monophyletic. We therefore provide 38 new 18S rRNA and/or EF-1alpha gene sequences from Mycetozoa and related species, including four protostelids and the enigmatic Ceratiomyxa fruticulosa. Phylogenetic analyses support the monophyly of Dictyostelia, Myxogastria, and Ceratiomyxa (here collectively called "macromycetozoa") and show that protostelids are Amoebozoa, mostly related to non-fruiting amoebae of the class Variosea, but may not be monophyletic; some phylogenetic relationships remain poorly resolved. Ceratiomyxa fruticulosa, originally regarded as a myxogastrid, but in recent decades included in Protostelia, is a deeply diverging sister to Myxogastria. The protostelids studied here plus varipodid amoebae and the flagellates Phalansterium and Multicilia together probably form the outgroup to macromycetozoa plus Archamoebae. Thus protostelids and Variosea are especially significant for understanding the evolutionary transition from solitary amoebae to macromycetozoa.

Fets, L., et al. (2010). "Dictyostelium." Curr Biol 20(23): R1008-1010.
	
Feasley, C. L., et al. (2010). "Glycopeptidome of a heavily N-glycosylated cell surface glycoprotein of Dictyostelium implicated in cell adhesion." J Proteome Res 9(7): 3495-3510.
	Genetic analysis has implicated the cell surface glycoprotein gp130 in cell interactions of the social amoeba Dictyostelium, and information about the utilization of the 18 N-glycosylation sequons present in gp130 is needed to identify critical molecular determinants of its activity. Various glycomics strategies, including mass spectrometry of native and derivatized glycans, monosaccharide analysis, exoglycosidase digestion, and antibody binding, were applied to characterize a nonanchored version secreted from Dictyostelium. s-gp130 is modified by a predominant Man(8)GlcNAc(4) species containing bisecting and intersecting GlcNAc residues and additional high-mannose N-glycans substituted with sulfate, methyl-phosphate, and/or core alpha 3-fucose. Site mapping confirmed the occupancy of 15 sequons, some variably, and glycopeptide analysis confirmed 14 sites and revealed extensive heterogeneity at most sites. Glycopeptide glycoforms ranged from Man(6) to Man(9), GlcNAc(0-2) (peripheral), Fuc(0-2) (including core alpha 3 and peripheral), (SO(4))(0-1), and (MePO(4))(0-1), which represented elements of virtually the entire known cellular N-glycome as inferred from prior metabolic labeling and mass spectrometry studies. gp130, and a family of 14 related predicted glycoproteins whose polypeptide sequences are rapidly diverging in the Dictyostelium lineage, may contribute a functionally important shroud of high-mannose N-glycans at the interface of the amoebae with each other, their predators and prey, and the soil environment.

Engelke, H., et al. (2010). "Probing GFP-actin diffusion in living cells using fluorescence correlation spectroscopy." Phys Biol 7(4): 046014.
	The cytoskeleton of eukaryotic cells is continuously remodeled by polymerization and depolymerization of actin. Consequently, the relative content of polymerized filamentous actin (F-actin) and monomeric globular actin (G-actin) is subject to temporal and spatial fluctuations. Since fluorescence correlation spectroscopy (FCS) can measure the diffusion of fluorescently labeled actin it seems likely that FCS allows us to determine the dynamics and hence indirectly the structural properties of the cytoskeleton components with high spatial resolution. To this end we investigate the FCS signal of GFP-actin in living Dictyostelium discoideum cells and explore the inherent spatial and temporal signatures of the actin cytoskeleton. Using the free green fluorescent protein (GFP) as a reference, we find that actin diffusion inside cells is dominated by G-actin and slower than diffusion in diluted cell extract. The FCS signal in the dense cortical F-actin network near the cell membrane is probed using the cytoskeleton protein LIM and is found to be slower than cytosolic G-actin diffusion. Furthermore, we show that polymerization of the cytoskeleton induced by Jasplakinolide leads to a substantial decrease of G-actin diffusion. Pronounced fluctuations in the distribution of the FCS correlation curves can be induced by latrunculin, which is known to induce actin waves. Our work suggests that the FCS signal of GFP-actin in combination with scanning or spatial correlation techniques yield valuable information about the local dynamics and concomitant cytoskeletal properties.

Eder, M., et al. (2010). "Non-invasive LC-PolScope imaging of biominerals and cell wall anisotropy changes." Protoplasma 246(1-4): 49-64.
	The formation of defined shapes by cells is one of the challenging questions in biology. Due to the anisotropy of cell walls and of certain biominerals, the LC-PolScope represents a promising tool for tracking dynamic structural changes in vivo non-invasively and, to some extent, quantitatively. A complex three-dimensional biogenic system, the in vitro precipitation of calcium oxalate induced by cellulose stalks produced by Dictyostelium discoideum, was analyzed. Although the retardance values and orientation of the crystals with respect to the stalk were quickly and easily detected, this study raised a number of issues that were addressed in this work. The effect of the refractive index of the embedding medium was examined by taking advantage of the homogeneous size and shape distribution of kiwifruit raphides, a biologically controlled calcium oxalate biomineral and of cotton (Gossypium) seed fibers. The retardance remained consistent when embedding these samples in media with increasing refractive indices from 1.33 to 1.42 or 1.47 for sucrose or glycerol gradients, respectively. The general applicability of LC-PolScope image processing for biominerals and cell wall formation during development in vivo was demonstrated in a particular group of green algae, the Desmidiaceae. Various organization levels of the cell wall were identified, thus confirming earlier findings based on electron microscopy and immunostaining investigations. It can be concluded that LC-PolScope microscopy is an attractive tool for studying dynamic ordering of biomolecules, such as plant cell walls, when additional parameters regarding the structure, composition, and refractive indices of the specimen are available.

Duran, J. M., et al. (2010). "Unconventional secretion of Acb1 is mediated by autophagosomes." J Cell Biol 188(4): 527-536.
	Starving Dictyostelium discoideum cells secrete AcbA, an acyl coenzyme A-binding protein (ACBP) that lacks a conventional signal sequence for entering the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Secretion of AcbA in D. discoideum requires the Golgi-associated protein GRASP. In this study, we report that starvation-induced secretion of Acb1, the Saccharomyces cerevisiae ACBP orthologue, also requires GRASP (Grh1). This highlights the conserved function of GRASP in unconventional secretion. Although genes required for ER to Golgi or Golgi to cell surface transport are not required for Acb1 secretion in yeast, this process involves autophagy genes and the plasma membrane t-SNARE, Sso1. Inhibiting transport to vacuoles does not affect Acb1 secretion. In sum, our experiments reveal a unique secretory pathway where autophagosomes containing Acb1 evade fusion with the vacuole to prevent cargo degradation. We propose that these autophagosome intermediates fuse with recycling endosomes instead to form multivesicular body carriers that then fuse with the plasma membrane to release cargo.

Dubin, M. and W. Nellen (2010). "A versatile set of tagged expression vectors to monitor protein localisation and function in Dictyostelium." Gene 465(1-2): 1-8.
	We describe here a series of vectors for ectopic expression of tagged proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum. These vectors allow the addition of N- or C-terminal tags (GFP, mRFP, 3xFLAG, 3xHA, 6xMYC or TAP) with an optimised polylinker sequence and no additional amino acid residues at the N- or C-terminus of the protein. The expression cassettes were introduced into vectors containing Blasticidin or Geneticin resistance markers and into integrating as well as extrachromosomal plasmids. The vectors are designed as high and low copy versions and thus allow for a limited expression level control. They are also convenient with regard to complementation, co- and super-transformation. Finally the vectors share standardised cloning sites, so that a gene of interest can be easily transferred between vectors as experimental requirements evolve. These vectors were used to study the localisation of several putative RNA processing proteins including EriA and DicerB.

Dubin, M., et al. (2010). "Dynamics of a novel centromeric histone variant CenH3 reveals the evolutionary ancestral timing of centromere biogenesis." Nucleic Acids Res 38(21): 7526-7537.
	The centromeric histone H3 variant (CenH3) serves to target the kinetochore to the centromeres and thus ensures correct chromosome segregation during mitosis and meiosis. The Dictyostelium H3-like variant H3v1 was identified as the CenH3 ortholog. Dictyostelium CenH3 has an extended N-terminal domain with no similarity to any other known proteins and a histone fold domain at its C-terminus. Within the histone fold, alpha-helix 2 (alpha2) and an extended loop 1 (L1) have been shown to be required for targeting CenH3 to centromeres. Compared to other known and putative CenH3 histones, Dictyostelium CenH3 has a shorter L1, suggesting that the extension is not an obligatory feature. Through ChIP analysis and fluorescence microscopy of live and fixed cells, we provide here the first survey of centromere structure in amoebozoa. The six telocentric centromeres were found to mostly consist of all the DIRS-1 elements and to associate with H3K9me3. During interphase, the centromeres remain attached to the centrosome forming a single CenH3-containing cluster. Loading of Dictyostelium CenH3 onto centromeres occurs at the G2/prophase transition, in contrast to the anaphase/telophase loading of CenH3 observed in metazoans. This suggests that loading during G2/prophase is the ancestral eukaryotic mechanism and that anaphase/telophase loading of CenH3 has evolved more recently after the amoebozoa diverged from the animal linage.

Dieckmann, R., et al. (2010). "A myosin IK-Abp1-PakB circuit acts as a switch to regulate phagocytosis efficiency." Mol Biol Cell 21(9): 1505-1518.
	Actin dynamics and myosin (Myo) contractile forces are necessary for formation and closure of the phagocytic cup. In Dictyostelium, the actin-binding protein Abp1 and myosin IK are enriched in the closing cup and especially at an actin-dense constriction furrow formed around the neck of engulfed budded yeasts. This phagocytic furrow consists of concentric overlapping rings of MyoK, Abp1, Arp3, coronin, and myosin II, following an order strikingly reminiscent of the overall organization of the lamellipodium of migrating cells. Mutation analyses of MyoK revealed that both a C-terminal farnesylation membrane anchor and a Gly-Pro-Arg domain that interacts with profilin and Abp1 were necessary for proper localization in the furrow and efficient phagocytosis. Consequently, we measured the binding affinities of these interactions and unraveled further interactions with profilins, dynamin A, and PakB. Due to the redundancy of the interaction network, we hypothesize that MyoK and Abp1 are restricted to regulatory roles and might affect the dynamic of cup progression. Indeed, phagocytic uptake was regulated antagonistically by MyoK and Abp1. MyoK is phosphorylated by PakB and positively regulates phagocytosis, whereas binding of Abp1 negatively regulates PakB and MyoK. We conclude that a MyoK-Abp1-PakB circuit acts as a switch regulating phagocytosis efficiency of large particles.

Delanoe-Ayari, H., et al. (2010). "4D traction force microscopy reveals asymmetric cortical forces in migrating Dictyostelium cells." Phys Rev Lett 105(24): 248103.
	We present a 4D (x; y; z; t) force map of Dictyostelium cells crawling on a soft gel substrate. Vertical forces are of the same order as the tangential ones. The cells pull the substratum upward along the cell, medium, or substratum contact line and push it downward under the cell except for the pseudopods. We demonstrate quantitatively that the variations in the asymmetry in cortical forces correlates with the variations of the direction and speed of cell displacement.

Czarna, M., et al. (2010). "Dynamics of the Dictyostelium discoideum mitochondrial proteome during vegetative growth, starvation and early stages of development." Proteomics 10(1): 6-22.
	In this study, a quantitative comparative proteomics approach has been used to analyze the Dictyostelium discoideum mitochondrial proteome variations during vegetative growth, starvation and the early stages of development. Application of 2-D DIGE technology allowed the detection of around 2000 protein spots on each 2-D gel with 180 proteins exhibiting significant changes in their expression level. In total, 96 proteins (51 unique and 45 redundant) were unambiguously identified. We show that the D. discoideum mitochondrial proteome adaptations mainly affect energy metabolism enzymes (the Krebs cycle, anaplerotic pathways, the oxidative phosphorylation system and energy dissipation), proteins involved in developmental and signaling processes as well as in protein biosynthesis and fate. The most striking observations were the opposite regulation of expression of citrate synthase and aconitase and the very large variation in the expression of the alternative oxidase that highlighted the importance of citrate and alternative oxidase in the physiology of the development of D. discoideum. Mitochondrial energy states measured in vivo with MitoTracker Orange CM Ros showed an increase in mitochondrial membrane polarization during D. discoideum starvation and starvation-induced development.

Cox, A. D., et al. (2010). "Investigating the candidacy of LPS-based glycoconjugates to prevent invasive meningococcal disease: chemical strategies to prepare glycoconjugates with good carbohydrate loading." Glycoconj J 27(4): 401-417.
	In previous studies protective antibodies that could facilitate bactericidal killing of Neisseria meningitidis (Nm) serogroup B strains were derived from immunisation with glycoconjugates prepared from O-deacylated lipopolysaccharide (LPS-OH) via direct reductive amination between the reducing end of the oligosaccharide molecule, created by treatment with alkaline phosphatase, and amino functionalities on the CRM(197) carrier protein. These glycoconjugates proved difficult to prepare because the presence of amide linked fatty-acyl groups results in glycolipids that are relatively insoluble and aggregate. Therefore, we have examined several strategies to prepare glycoconjugates in order to identify a robust, consistently reproducible strategy that produces glycoconjugates with a high loading of LPS derived oligosaccharides. Initially we used completely deacylated LPS molecules, but lacking phosphoethanolamine (PEtn) from the core OS as the strong basic conditions required to completely deacylate the LPS would modify the PEtn residue. We utilised a squarate linker and conjugated via the reducing end of the carbohydrate antigen following removal of the glycosidic phosphate to amino groups on CRM(197), however carbohydrate loading on the carrier protein was low. Glycoconjugates were then produced utilising amidases produced by Dictyostelium discoideum (Dd), which partially remove N-linked fatty acids from the lipid A region of the Nm LPS molecule, which enabled the retention of the PEtn residue. LPS-OH was treated with Dd amidase, the reducing glycosidic phosphate removed, and using a cystamine linker strategy, conjugated to the carrier protein. Carbohydrate loading was somewhat improved but still not high. Finally, we have developed a novel conjugation strategy that targets the amino functionality created by the amidase activity as the attachment point. The amino functionality on the PEtn residue of the inner core was protected via a novel blocking and unblocking strategy with t-butyl oxycarbonyl. A maleimide-thiol linker strategy, targeting lysine residues on the carrier protein did not result in high loading of the carbohydrate molecules, however when we targeted the carboxyl residues we have consistently obtained a high loading of carbohydrate antigens per CRM(197), which can be controlled by variation in the amount of activated carbohydrate utilised in the conjugation reaction.

Conte, D., et al. (2010). "BTG interacts with retinoblastoma to control cell fate in Dictyostelium." PLoS One 5(3): e9676.
	BACKGROUND: In the genesis of many tissues, a phase of cell proliferation is followed by cell cycle exit and terminal differentiation. The latter two processes overlap: genes involved in the cessation of growth may also be important in triggering differentiation. Though conceptually distinct, they are often causally related and functional interactions between the cell cycle machinery and cell fate control networks are fundamental to coordinate growth and differentiation. A switch from proliferation to differentiation may also be important in the life cycle of single-celled organisms, and genes which arose as regulators of microbial differentiation may be conserved in higher organisms. Studies in microorganisms may thus contribute to understanding the molecular links between cell cycle machinery and the determination of cell fate choice networks. METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Here we show that in the amoebozoan D. discoideum, an ortholog of the metazoan antiproliferative gene btg controls cell fate, and that this function is dependent on the presence of a second tumor suppressor ortholog, the retinoblastoma-like gene product. Specifically, we find that btg-overexpressing cells preferentially adopt a stalk cell (and, more particularly, an Anterior-Like Cell) fate. No btg-dependent preference for ALC fate is observed in cells in which the retinoblastoma-like gene has been genetically inactivated. Dictyostelium btg is the only example of non-metazoan member of the BTG family characterized so far, suggesting that a genetic interaction between btg and Rb predated the divergence between dictyostelids and metazoa. CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: While the requirement for retinoblastoma function for BTG antiproliferative activity in metazoans is known, an interaction of these genes in the control of cell fate has not been previously documented. Involvement of a single pathway in the control of mutually exclusive processes may have relevant implication in the evolution of multicellularity.

Clarke, M., et al. (2010). "Retrieval of the vacuolar H-ATPase from phagosomes revealed by live cell imaging." PLoS One 5(1): e8585.
	BACKGROUND: The vacuolar H+-ATPase, or V-ATPase, is a highly-conserved multi-subunit enzyme that transports protons across membranes at the expense of ATP. The resulting proton gradient serves many essential functions, among them energizing transport of small molecules such as neurotransmitters, and acidifying organelles such as endosomes. The enzyme is not present in the plasma membrane from which a phagosome is formed, but is rapidly delivered by fusion with endosomes that already bear the V-ATPase in their membranes. Similarly, the enzyme is thought to be retrieved from phagosome membranes prior to exocytosis of indigestible material, although that process has not been directly visualized. METHODOLOGY: To monitor trafficking of the V-ATPase in the phagocytic pathway of Dictyostelium discoideum, we fed the cells yeast, large particles that maintain their shape during trafficking. To track pH changes, we conjugated the yeast with fluorescein isothiocyanate. Cells were labeled with VatM-GFP, a fluorescently-tagged transmembrane subunit of the V-ATPase, in parallel with stage-specific endosomal markers or in combination with mRFP-tagged cytoskeletal proteins. PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We find that the V-ATPase is commonly retrieved from the phagosome membrane by vesiculation shortly before exocytosis. However, if the cells are kept in confined spaces, a bulky phagosome may be exocytosed prematurely. In this event, a large V-ATPase-rich vacuole coated with actin typically separates from the acidic phagosome shortly before exocytosis. This vacuole is propelled by an actin tail and soon acquires the properties of an early endosome, revealing an unexpected mechanism for rapid recycling of the V-ATPase. Any V-ATPase that reaches the plasma membrane is also promptly retrieved. CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: Thus, live cell microscopy has revealed both a usual route and alternative means of recycling the V-ATPase in the endocytic pathway.

Clarke, M., et al. (2010). "Curvature recognition and force generation in phagocytosis." BMC Biol 8: 154.
	BACKGROUND: The uptake of particles by actin-powered invagination of the plasma membrane is common to protozoa and to phagocytes involved in the immune response of higher organisms. The question addressed here is how a phagocyte may use geometric cues to optimize force generation for the uptake of a particle. We survey mechanisms that enable a phagocyte to remodel actin organization in response to particles of complex shape. RESULTS: Using particles that consist of two lobes separated by a neck, we found that Dictyostelium cells transmit signals concerning the curvature of a surface to the actin system underlying the plasma membrane. Force applied to a concave region can divide a particle in two, allowing engulfment of the portion first encountered. The phagosome membrane that is bent around the concave region is marked by a protein containing an inverse Bin-Amphiphysin-Rvs (I-BAR) domain in combination with an Src homology (SH3) domain, similar to mammalian insulin receptor tyrosine kinase substrate p53. Regulatory proteins enable the phagocyte to switch activities within seconds in response to particle shape. Ras, an inducer of actin polymerization, is activated along the cup surface. Coronin, which limits the lifetime of actin structures, is reversibly recruited to the cup, reflecting a program of actin depolymerization. The various forms of myosin-I are candidate motor proteins for force generation in particle uptake, whereas myosin-II is engaged only in retracting a phagocytic cup after a switch to particle release. Thus, the constriction of a phagocytic cup differs from the contraction of a cleavage furrow in mitosis. CONCLUSIONS: Phagocytes scan a particle surface for convex and concave regions. By modulating the spatiotemporal pattern of actin organization, they are capable of switching between different modes of interaction with a particle, either arresting at a concave region and applying force in an attempt to sever the particle there, or extending the cup along the particle surface to identify the very end of the object to be ingested. Our data illustrate the flexibility of regulatory mechanisms that are at the phagocyte's disposal in exploring an environment of irregular geometry.

Clarke, M. (2010). "Recent insights into host-pathogen interactions from Dictyostelium." Cell Microbiol 12(3): 283-291.
	To protect themselves from predation by amoebae and protozoa in the natural environment, some bacteria evolved means of escaping killing. The same mechanisms allow survival in mammalian phagocytes, producing opportunistic human pathogens. The social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum is a powerful system for analysis of conserved host-pathogen interactions. This report reviews recent insights gained for several bacterial pathogens using Dictyostelium as host.

Choi, C. H., et al. (2010). "Expression of actin-interacting protein 1 suppresses impaired chemotaxis of Dictyostelium cells lacking the Na+-H+ exchanger NHE1." Mol Biol Cell 21(18): 3162-3170.
	Increased intracellular pH is an evolutionarily conserved signal necessary for directed cell migration. We reported previously that in Dictyostelium cells lacking H(+) efflux by a Na(+)-H(+) exchanger (NHE; Ddnhe1(-)), chemotaxis is impaired and the assembly of filamentous actin (F-actin) is attenuated. We now describe a modifier screen that reveals the C-terminal fragment of actin-interacting protein 1 (Aip1) enhances the chemotaxis defect of Ddnhe1(-) cells but has no effect in wild-type Ax2 cells. However, expression of full-length Aip1 mostly suppresses chemotaxis defects of Ddnhe1(-) cells and restores F-actin assembly. Aip1 functions to promote cofilin-dependent actin remodeling, and we found that although full-length Aip1 binds cofilin and F-actin, the C-terminal fragment binds cofilin but not F-actin. Because pH-dependent cofilin activity is attenuated in mammalian cells lacking H(+) efflux by NHE1, our current data suggest that full-length Aip1 facilitates F-actin assembly when cofilin activity is limited. We predict the C-terminus of Aip1 enhances defective chemotaxis of Ddnhe1(-) cells by sequestering the limited amount of active cofilin without promoting F-actin assembly. Our findings indicate a cooperative role of Aip1 and cofilin in pH-dependent cell migration, and they suggest defective chemotaxis in Ddnhe1(-) cells is determined primarily by loss of cofilin-dependent actin dynamics.

Chen, Z. H., et al. (2010). "Functional dissection of adenylate cyclase R, an inducer of spore encapsulation." J Biol Chem 285(53): 41724-41731.
	Cyclic AMP acting on protein kinase A controls sporulation and encystation in social and solitary amoebas. In Dictyostelium discoideum, adenylate cyclase R (ACR), is essential for spore encapsulation. In addition to its cyclase (AC) domain, ACR harbors seven transmembrane helices, a histidine kinase domain, and two receiver domains. We investigated the role of these domains in the regulation of AC activity. Expression of an ACR-YFP fusion protein in acr(-) cells rescued their sporulation defective phenotype and revealed that ACR is associated with the nuclear envelope and endoplasmic reticulum. Loss of the transmembrane helices (DeltaTM) caused a 60% reduction of AC activity, but DeltaTM-ACR still rescued the acr(-) phenotype. The isolated AC domain was properly expressed but inactive. Mutation of three essential ATP-binding residues in the histidine kinase domain did not affect the AC activity or phenotypic rescue. Mutation of the essential phosphoryl-accepting aspartate in receivers 1, 2, or both had only modest effects on AC activity and did not affect phenotypic rescue, indicating that AC activity is not critically regulated by phosphorelay. Remarkably, the dimerizing histidine phosphoacceptor subdomain, which in ACR lacks the canonical histidine for autophosphorylation, was essential for AC activity. Transformation of wild-type cells with an ACR allele (DeltaCRA) that is truncated after this domain inhibited AC activity of endogenous ACR and replicated the acr(-) phenotype. Combined with the observation that the isolated AC domain was inactive, the dominant-negative effect of DeltaCRA strongly suggests that the defunct phosphoacceptor domain acquired a novel role in enforcing dimerization of the AC domain.

Chen, P. W., et al. (2010). "ACAP-A/B are ArfGAP homologs in dictyostelium involved in sporulation but not in chemotaxis." PLoS One 5(1): e8624.
	Arfs and Arf GTPase-activating proteins (ArfGAPs) are regulators of membrane trafficking and actin dynamics in mammalian cells. In this study, we identified a primordial Arf, ArfA, and two ArfGAPs (ACAP-A/B) containing BAR, PH, ArfGAP and Ankyrin repeat domains in the eukaryote Dictyostelium discoideum. In vitro, ArfA has similar nucleotide binding properties as mammalian Arfs and, with GTP bound, is a substrate for ACAP-A and B. We also investigated the physiological functions of ACAP-A/B by characterizing cells lacking both ACAP-A and B. Although ACAP-A/B knockout cells showed no defects in cell growth, migration or chemotaxis, they exhibited abnormal actin protrusions and approximately 50% reduction in spore yield. We conclude that while ACAP-A/B have a conserved biochemical mechanism and effect on actin organization, their role in migration is not conserved. The absence of an effect on Dictyostelium migration may be due to a specific requirement for ACAPs in mesenchymal migration, which is observed in epithelial cancer cells where most studies of mammalian ArfGAPs were performed.

Cheli, V. T. and E. C. Dell'Angelica (2010). "Early origin of genes encoding subunits of biogenesis of lysosome-related organelles complex-1, -2 and -3." Traffic 11(5): 579-586.
	Biogenesis of lysosome-related organelles complex (BLOC)-1, -2 and -3 are three multi-subunit protein complexes that are deficient in various forms of Hermansky-Pudlak syndrome, a human disease characterized by abnormal formation of lysosome-related organelles. Contrasting views have arisen on the evolutionary origin of these protein complexes. One view is that the BLOCs represent a recent evolutionary 'acquisition' unique to metazoans. However, the yeast proteins Mon1, Ccz1 and She3 have been reported to display homology to the HPS1 and HPS4 subunits of BLOC-3 and the BLOS2 subunit of BLOC-1, respectively. In this work, we have systematically searched for orthologs of BLOC subunits in the annotated genomes of over 160 species of eukaryotes, including metazoans and fungi in the Opisthokonta group as well as highly divergent organisms. We have found orthologs of six of the eight BLOC-1 subunits, two of the three BLOC-2 subunits, and the two BLOC-3 subunits, in some non-opisthokonts such as Dictyostelium discoideum, suggesting an early evolutionary origin for these complexes. On the other hand, we have obtained no evidence in support of the notion that yeast She3 would be an ortholog of BLOS2, and found that yeast Mon1 and Ccz1, despite displaying restricted homology to portions of HPS1 and HPS4, are unlikely to represent the orthologs of these BLOC-3 subunits. Potential orthologs of Mon1 and Ccz1 were found in humans and several other eukaryotes.

Charest, P. G., et al. (2010). "A Ras signaling complex controls the RasC-TORC2 pathway and directed cell migration." Dev Cell 18(5): 737-749.
	Ras was found to regulate Dictyostelium chemotaxis, but the mechanisms that spatially and temporally control Ras activity during chemotaxis remain largely unknown. We report the discovery of a Ras signaling complex that includes the Ras guanine exchange factor (RasGEF) Aimless, RasGEFH, protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A), and a scaffold designated Sca1. The Sca1/RasGEF/PP2A complex is recruited to the plasma membrane in a chemoattractant- and F-actin-dependent manner and is enriched at the leading edge of chemotaxing cells where it regulates F-actin dynamics and signal relay by controlling the activation of RasC and the downstream target of rapamycin complex 2 (TORC2)-Akt/protein kinase B (PKB) pathway. In addition, PKB and PKB-related PKBR1 phosphorylate Sca1 and regulate the membrane localization of the Sca1/RasGEF/PP2A complex, and thereby RasC activity, in a negative feedback fashion. Thus, our study uncovered a molecular mechanism whereby RasC activity and the spatiotemporal activation of TORC2 are tightly controlled at the leading edge of chemotaxing cells.

Cha, I., et al. (2010). "Chemoattractant-mediated Rap1 activation requires GPCR/G proteins." Mol Cells 30(6): 563-567.
	Rap1 is rapidly activated upon chemoattractant stimulation and plays an important role in cell adhesion and cytoskeletal reorganization during chemotaxis. Here, we demonstrate that G-protein coupled receptors and G-proteins are essential for chemoattractant-mediated Rap1 activation in Dictyostelium. The rapid Rap1 activation upon cAMP chemoattractant stimulation was absent in cells lacking chemoattractant cAMP receptors cAR1/cAR3 or a subunit of the heterotrimeric G-protein complex Galpha2. Loss of guanylyl cyclases GCA/SGC or a cGMP-binding protein GbpC exhibited no effect on Rap1 activation kinetics. These results suggest that Rap1, a key regulator for the regulation of cytoskeletal reorganization during cell movement, is activated through the G-protein coupled receptors cAR1/cAR3 and Galpha2 proteins in a way independent of the cGMP signaling pathway.

Catalano, A., et al. (2010). "Synthesis and biological activity of peptides equivalent to the IP22 repeat motif found in proteins from Dictyostelium and Mimivirus." Peptides 31(10): 1799-1805.
	A novel IP22 repeat motif of unknown function was discovered previously that comprises almost the entire structure of cmbB, a calmodulin-binding protein from Dictyostelium discoideum. An analysis of over 2000 IP22 repeats across 130 different proteins from different species allowed us to define a prototypical IP22 repeat: I/LPxxhxxhxhxxxhxxxhxxxx (where L=leucine, I=isoleucine, h=any hydrophobic amino acid, x=any amino acid). Here we describe the synthesis of three peptide variants of the IP22 motif: IP22-1 (IPNSVTSLKFGDGFNQPLTPGT; 22aa); IP22-2 (LPSTLKTISLSNSTDKKIFKNS; 22aa); and, IP22-3 (IPKSLRSLFLGKGYNQPLEF; 20aa) plus a control peptide from the N-term of cmbB (HNMNPFSPQLDEKKNSHIVEY; 21aa). The structure and purity of synthesized peptides were verified by HPLC and mass spectrometry. The peptides all dose-dependently enhanced random cell motility and cAMP-mediated chemotaxis in Dictyostelium but IP22-3 was most effective peaking in activity around 50 muM. Fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC)-conjugated IP22 peptides did not penetrate cells suggesting these peptides affect cell motility via cell surface interactions. Treatment of cells with FITC-IP22 peptides also led to enhanced cell motility equivalent to the non-conjugated peptides. Treatment of IP22-3-stimulated cells with 50 muM LY294002, 20 muM quinacrine or both suggests that IP22-3 requires both phosphoinositol 3-kinase and phospholipase A2 signaling to elicit its effects, a mechanism unique from EGFL motility enhancing peptides. The mechanism of action and potential uses of IP22 repeat peptides are discussed.

Carilla-Latorre, S., et al. (2010). "MidA is a putative methyltransferase that is required for mitochondrial complex I function." J Cell Sci 123(Pt 10): 1674-1683.
	Dictyostelium and human MidA are homologous proteins that belong to a family of proteins of unknown function called DUF185. Using yeast two-hybrid screening and pull-down experiments, we showed that both proteins interact with the mitochondrial complex I subunit NDUFS2. Consistent with this, Dictyostelium cells lacking MidA showed a specific defect in complex I activity, and knockdown of human MidA in HEK293T cells resulted in reduced levels of assembled complex I. These results indicate a role for MidA in complex I assembly or stability. A structural bioinformatics analysis suggested the presence of a methyltransferase domain; this was further supported by site-directed mutagenesis of specific residues from the putative catalytic site. Interestingly, this complex I deficiency in a Dictyostelium midA(-) mutant causes a complex phenotypic outcome, which includes phototaxis and thermotaxis defects. We found that these aspects of the phenotype are mediated by a chronic activation of AMPK, revealing a possible role of AMPK signaling in complex I cytopathology.

Camarena, L., et al. (2010). "Molecular mechanisms of ethanol-induced pathogenesis revealed by RNA-sequencing." PLoS Pathog 6(4): e1000834.
	Acinetobacter baumannii is a common pathogen whose recent resistance to drugs has emerged as a major health problem. Ethanol has been found to increase the virulence of A. baumannii in Dictyostelium discoideum and Caenorhabditis elegans models of infection. To better understand the causes of this effect, we examined the transcriptional profile of A. baumannii grown in the presence or absence of ethanol using RNA-Seq. Using the Illumina/Solexa platform, a total of 43,453,960 reads (35 nt) were obtained, of which 3,596,474 mapped uniquely to the genome. Our analysis revealed that ethanol induces the expression of 49 genes that belong to different functional categories. A strong induction was observed for genes encoding metabolic enzymes, indicating that ethanol is efficiently assimilated. In addition, we detected the induction of genes encoding stress proteins, including upsA, hsp90, groEL and lon as well as permeases, efflux pumps and a secreted phospholipase C. In stationary phase, ethanol strongly induced several genes involved with iron assimilation and a high-affinity phosphate transport system, indicating that A. baumannii makes a better use of the iron and phosphate resources in the medium when ethanol is used as a carbon source. To evaluate the role of phospholipase C (Plc1) in virulence, we generated and analyzed a deletion mutant for plc1. This strain exhibits a modest, but reproducible, reduction in the cytotoxic effect caused by A. baumannii on epithelial cells, suggesting that phospholipase C is important for virulence. Overall, our results indicate the power of applying RNA-Seq to identify key modulators of bacterial pathogenesis. We suggest that the effect of ethanol on the virulence of A. baumannii is multifactorial and includes a general stress response and other specific components such as phospholipase C.

Calvo-Garrido, J. and R. Escalante (2010). "Autophagy dysfunction and ubiquitin-positive protein aggregates in Dictyostelium cells lacking Vmp1." Autophagy 6(1): 100-109.
	Ubiquitin-positive protein aggregates are a hallmark of many degenerative diseases. Their presence can be induced by dysfunction in protein degradation pathways such as proteasome and autophagy. We now report several lines of evidence suggesting a defect in autophagy in Dictyostelium cells lacking Vmp1 (vacuole membrane protein 1), an endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-resident protein involved in pathological processes such as cancer and pancreatitis. vmp1- null cells are unable to survive starvation or undergo autophagic cell death under the appropriate inductive signals. Moreover, confocal studies using the autophagy marker Atg8 and previous transmission electron microscopy analysis showed defects in autophagosome formation. Although Vmp1 is localized in the ER, we found colocalization with Atg8 suggesting a contribution of both Vmp1 and ER in autophagosome biogenesis or maturation. Interestingly, vmp1- mutant cells showed accumulation of huge ubiquitin-positive protein aggregates containing the autophagy marker GFP-Atg8 and the putative Dictyostelium p62 homologue as described in many degenerative human diseases. The analysis of other Dictyostelium autophagic mutants (atg1-, atg5-, atg6-, atg7- and atg8-) showed a correlation in the severity of their corresponding phenotypes and the presence of ubiquitin-positive protein aggregates suggesting that the deleterious effects associated with development of these aggregates might contribute to the complex phenotypes observed in autophagy deficient mutants. Our results suggest that Vmp1 is required for the clearance of these ubiquitinated protein aggregates through autophagy and highlight a potential role for Vmp1 in protein-aggregation diseases.

Calvo-Garrido, J., et al. (2010). "Autophagy in Dictyostelium: genes and pathways, cell death and infection." Autophagy 6(6): 686-701.
	The use of simple organisms to understand the molecular and cellular function of complex processes is instrumental for the rapid development of biomedical research. A remarkable example has been the discovery in S. cerevisiae of a group of proteins involved in the pathways of autophagy. Orthologues of these proteins have been identified in humans and experimental model organisms. Interestingly, some mammalian autophagy proteins do not seem to have homologues in yeast but are present in Dictyostelium, a social amoeba with two distinctive life phases, a unicellular stage in nutrient-rich conditions that differentiates upon starvation into a multicellular stage that depends on autophagy. This review focuses on the identification and annotation of the putative Dictyostelium autophagy genes and on the role of autophagy in development, cell death and infection by bacterial pathogens.

Calovi, D. S., et al. (2010). "cAMP diffusion in Dictyostelium discoideum: a Green's function method." Phys Rev E Stat Nonlin Soft Matter Phys 82(1 Pt 1): 011909.
	A Green's function method is developed to approach the spatiotemporal equations describing the cAMP production in Dictyostelium discoideum, markedly reducing numerical calculations times: cAMP concentrations and gradients are calculated just at the amoeba locations. A single set of parameters is capable of reproducing the different observed behaviors, from cAMP synchronization, spiral waves and reaction-diffusion patterns to streaming and mound formation. After aggregation, the emergence of a circular motion of amoebas, breaking the radial cAMP field symmetry, is observed.

Cai, H., et al. (2010). "Ras-mediated activation of the TORC2-PKB pathway is critical for chemotaxis." J Cell Biol 190(2): 233-245.
	In chemotactic cells, G protein-coupled receptors activate Ras proteins, but it is unclear how Ras-associated pathways link extracellular signaling to cell migration. We show that, in Dictyostelium discoideum, activated forms of RasC prolong the time course of TORC2 (target of rapamycin [Tor] complex 2)-mediated activation of a myristoylated protein kinase B (PKB; PKBR1) and the phosphorylation of PKB substrates, independently of phosphatidylinositol-(3,4,5)-trisphosphate. Paralleling these changes, the kinetics of chemoattractant-induced adenylyl cyclase activation and actin polymerization are extended, pseudopodial activity is increased and mislocalized, and chemotaxis is impaired. The effects of activated RasC are suppressed by deletion of the TORC2 subunit PiaA. In vitro RasC(Q62L)-dependent PKB phosphorylation can be rapidly initiated by the addition of a PiaA-associated immunocomplex to membranes of TORC2-deficient cells and blocked by TOR-specific inhibitor PP242. Furthermore, TORC2 binds specifically to the activated form of RasC. These results demonstrate that RasC is an upstream regulator of TORC2 and that the TORC2-PKB signaling mediates effects of activated Ras proteins on the cytoskeleton and cell migration.

Cabral, M., et al. (2010). "Unconventional secretion of AcbA in Dictyostelium discoideum through a vesicular intermediate." Eukaryot Cell 9(7): 1009-1017.
	The acyl coenzyme A (CoA) binding protein AcbA is secreted unconventionally and processed into spore differentiation factor 2 (SDF-2), a peptide that coordinates sporulation in Dictyostelium discoideum. We report that AcbA is localized in vesicles that accumulate in the cortex of prespore cells just prior to sporulation. These vesicles are not observed after cells are stimulated to release AcbA but remain visible after stimulation in cells lacking the Golgi reassembly stacking protein (GRASP). Acyl-CoA binding is required for the inclusion of AcbA in these vesicles, and the secretion of AcbA requires N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor (NSF). About 1% of the total cellular AcbA can be purified within membrane-bound vesicles. The yield of vesicles decreases dramatically when purified from wild-type cells that were stimulated to release AcbA, whereas the yield from GRASP mutant cells was only modestly altered by stimulation. We suggest that these AcbA-containing vesicles are secretion intermediates and that GRASP functions at a late step leading to the docking/fusion of these vesicles at the cell surface.

Buttery, N. J., et al. (2010). "Complex genotype interactions influence social fitness during the developmental phase of the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum." J Evol Biol 23(8): 1664-1671.
	When individuals interact, phenotypic variation can be partitioned into direct genetic effects (DGEs) of the individuals' own genotypes, indirect genetic effects (IGEs) of their social partners' genotypes and epistatic interactions between the genotypes of interacting individuals ('genotype-by-genotype (GxG) epistasis'). These components can all play important roles in evolutionary processes, but few empirical studies have examined their importance. The social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum provides an ideal system to measure these effects during social interactions and development. When starved, free-living amoebae aggregate and differentiate into a multicellular fruiting body with a dead stalk that holds aloft viable spores. By measuring interactions among a set of natural strains, we quantify DGEs, IGEs and GxG epistasis affecting spore formation. We find that DGEs explain most of the phenotypic variance (57.6%) whereas IGEs explain a smaller (13.3%) but highly significant component. Interestingly, GxG epistasis explains nearly a quarter of the variance (23.0%), highlighting the complex nature of genotype interactions. These results demonstrate the large impact that social interactions can have on development and suggest that social effects should play an important role in developmental evolution in this system.

Bullerwell, C. E., et al. (2010). "Abundant 5S rRNA-like transcripts encoded by the mitochondrial genome in amoebozoa." Eukaryot Cell 9(5): 762-773.
	5S rRNAs are ubiquitous components of prokaryotic, chloroplast, and eukaryotic cytosolic ribosomes but are apparently absent from mitochondrial ribosomes (mitoribosomes) of many eukaryotic groups including animals and fungi. Nevertheless, a clearly identifiable, mitochondrion-encoded 5S rRNA is present in Acanthamoeba castellanii, a member of Amoebozoa. During a search for additional mitochondrial 5S rRNAs, we detected small abundant RNAs in other members of Amoebozoa, namely, in the lobose amoeba Hartmannella vermiformis and in the myxomycete slime mold Physarum polycephalum. These RNAs are encoded by mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA), cosediment with mitoribosomes in glycerol gradients, and can be folded into a secondary structure similar to that of bona fide 5S rRNAs. Further, in the mtDNA of another slime mold, Didymium nigripes, we identified a region that in sequence, potential secondary structure, and genomic location is similar to the corresponding region encoding the Physarum small RNA. A mtDNA-encoded small RNA previously identified in Dictyostelium discoideum is here shown to share several characteristics with known 5S rRNAs. Again, we detected genes encoding potential homologs of this RNA in the mtDNA of three other species of the genus Dictyostelium as well as in a related genus, Polysphondylium. Taken together, our results indicate a widespread occurrence of small, abundant, mtDNA-encoded RNAs with 5S rRNA-like structures that are associated with the mitoribosome in various amoebozoan taxa. Our working hypothesis is that these novel small abundant RNAs represent radically divergent mitochondrial 5S rRNA homologs. We posit that currently unrecognized 5S-like RNAs may exist in other mitochondrial systems in which a conventional 5S rRNA cannot be identified.

Buenemann, M., et al. (2010). "The role of cell contraction and adhesion in dictyostelium motility." Biophys J 99(1): 50-58.
	The crawling motion of Dictyostelium discoideum on substrata involves a number of coordinated events including cell contractions and cell protrusions. The mechanical forces exerted on the substratum during these contractions have recently been quantified using traction force experiments. Based on the results from these experiments, we present a biomechanical model of the contraction phase of Dictyostelium discoideum motility with an emphasis on the adhesive properties of the cell-substratum contact. Our model assumes that the cell contracts at a constant rate and is bound to the substratum by adhesive bridges that are modeled as elastic springs. These bridges are established at a spatially uniform rate while detachment occurs at a spatially varying, load-dependent rate. Using Monte Carlo simulations and assuming a rigid substratum, we find that the cell speed depends only weakly on the detachment kinetics of the cell-substratum interface, in agreement with experimental data. By varying the parameters that control the adhesive and contractile properties of the cell, we are able to make testable predictions. We also extend our model to include a flexible substrate and show that our model is able to produce substratum deformations and force patterns that are quantitatively and qualitatively in agreement with experimental data.

Breshears, L. M., et al. (2010). "An unconventional myosin required for cell polarization and chemotaxis." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 107(15): 6918-6923.
	MyTH/FERM (myosin tail homology 4/band 4.1, ezrin, radixin, and moesin) myosins have roles in cellular adhesion, extension of actin-filled projections such as filopodia and stereocilia, and directional migration. The amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum expresses a simple complement of MyTH/FERM myosins, a class VII (M7) myosin required for cell-substrate adhesion and a unique myosin named MyoG. Mutants lacking MyoG exhibit a wide range of normal actin-based behaviors, including chemotaxis to folic acid, but have a striking defect in polarization and chemotaxis to cAMP. Although the myoG mutants respond to cAMP stimulation by increasing persistence and weakly increasing levels of cortical F-actin, they do not polarize; instead, they maintain a round shape and move slowly and randomly when exposed to a chemotactic gradient. The mutants also fail to activate and localize PI3K to the membrane closest to the source of chemoattractant. These data reveal a role for a MyTH/FERM myosin in mediating early chemotactic signaling and suggest that MyTH/FERM proteins have conserved roles in signaling and the generation of cell polarity.

Brady, R. J., et al. (2010). "Regulation of Hip1r by epsin controls the temporal and spatial coupling of actin filaments to clathrin-coated pits." J Cell Sci 123(Pt 21): 3652-3661.
	Recently, it has become clear that the actin cytoskeleton is involved in clathrin-mediated endocytosis. During clathrin-mediated endocytosis, clathrin triskelions and adaptor proteins assemble into lattices, forming clathrin-coated pits. These coated pits invaginate and detach from the membrane, a process that requires dynamic actin polymerization. We found an unexpected role for the clathrin adaptor epsin in regulating actin dynamics during this late stage of coated vesicle formation. In Dictyostelium cells, epsin is required for both the membrane recruitment and phosphorylation of the actin- and clathrin-binding protein Hip1r. Epsin-null and Hip1r-null cells exhibit deficiencies in the timing and organization of actin filaments at clathrin-coated pits. Consequently, clathrin structures persist on the membranes of epsin and Hip1r mutants and the internalization of clathrin structures is delayed. We conclude that epsin works with Hip1r to regulate actin dynamics by controlling the spatial and temporal coupling of actin filaments to clathrin-coated pits. Specific residues in the ENTH domain of epsin that are required for the membrane recruitment and phosphorylation of Hip1r are also required for normal actin and clathrin dynamics at the plasma membrane. We propose that epsin promotes the membrane recruitment and phosphorylation of Hip1r, which in turn regulates actin polymerization at clathrin-coated pits.

Bosgraaf, L. and P. J. Van Haastert (2010). "Quimp3, an automated pseudopod-tracking algorithm." Cell Adh Migr 4(1): 46-55.
	To understand movement of amoeboid cells we have developed an information tool that automatically detects protrusions of moving cells. The algorithm uses digitized cell recordings at a speed of approximately 1 image per second that are analyzed in three steps. In the first part, the outline of a cell is defined as a polygon of approximately 150 nodes, using the previously published Quimp2 program. By comparing the position of the nodes in place and time, each node contains information on position, local curvature and speed of movement. The second part uses rules for curvature and movement to define the position and time of start and end of a growing pseudopod. This part of the algorithm produces quantitative data on size, surface area, lifetime, frequency and direction of pseudopod extension. The third part of the algorithm assigns qualitative properties to each pseudopod. It decides on the origin of a pseudopod as splitting of an existing pseudopod or as extension de novo. It also decides on the fate of each pseudopod as merged with the cell body or retracted. Here we describe the pseudopod tool and present the first data based on the analysis of approximately 1,000 pseudopodia extended by Dictyostelium cells in the absence of external cues.

Bolourani, P., et al. (2010). "Determinants of RasC specificity during Dictyostelium aggregation." J Biol Chem 285(53): 41374-41379.
	RasC is required for optimum activation of adenylyl cyclase A and for aggregate stream formation during the early differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum. RasG is unable to substitute for this requirement despite its sequence similarity to RasC. A critical question is which amino acids in RasC are required for its specific function. Each of the amino acids within the switch 1 and 2 domains in the N-terminal portion of RasG was changed to the corresponding amino acid from RasC, and the ability of the mutated RasG protein to reverse the phenotype of rasC(-) cells was determined. Only the change from aspartate at position 30 of RasG to alanine (the equivalent position 31 in RasC) resulted in a significant increase in adenylyl cyclase A activation and a partial reversal of the aggregation-deficient phenotype of rasC(-) cells. All other single amino acid changes were without effect. Expression of a chimeric protein, RasG(1-77)-RasC(79-189), also resulted in a partial reversal of the rasC(-) cell phenotype, indicating the importance of the C-terminal portion of RasC. Furthermore, expression of the chimeric protein, with alanine changed to aspartate (RasG(1-77(D30A))-RasC(79-189)), resulted in a full rescue the rasC(-) aggregation-deficient phenotype. Finally, the expression of either a mutated RasC, with the aspartate 31 replaced by alanine, or the chimeric protein, RasC(1-78)-RasG(78-189), only generated a partial rescue. These results emphasize the importance of both the single amino acid at position 31 and the C-terminal sequence for the specific function of RasC during Dictyostelium aggregation.

Bolourani, P., et al. (2010). "Ras proteins have multiple functions in vegetative cells of Dictyostelium." Eukaryot Cell 9(11): 1728-1733.
	During the aggregation of Dictyostelium cells, signaling through RasG is more important in regulating cyclic AMP (cAMP) chemotaxis, whereas signaling through RasC is more important in regulating the cAMP relay. However, RasC is capable of substituting for RasG for chemotaxis, since rasG cells are only partially deficient in chemotaxis, whereas rasC/rasG cells are totally incapable of chemotaxis. In this study we have examined the possible functional overlap between RasG and RasC in vegetative cells by comparing the vegetative cell properties of rasG, rasC, and rasC/rasG cells. In addition, since RasD, a protein not normally found in vegetative cells, is expressed in vegetative rasG and rasC/rasG cells and appears to partially compensate for the absence of RasG, we have also examined the possible functional overlap between RasG and RasD by comparing the properties of rasG and rasC/rasG cells with those of the mutant cells expressing higher levels of RasD. The results of these two lines of investigation show that RasD is capable of totally substituting for RasG for cytokinesis and growth in suspension, whereas RasC is without effect. In contrast, for chemotaxis to folate, RasC is capable of partially substituting for RasG, but RasD is totally without effect. Finally, neither RasC nor RasD is able to substitute for the role that RasG plays in regulating actin distribution and random motility. These specificity studies therefore delineate three distinct and none-overlapping functions for RasG in vegetative cells.

Bloomfield, G., et al. (2010). "Sex determination in the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum." Science 330(6010): 1533-1536.
	The genetics of sex determination remain mysterious in many organisms, including some that are otherwise well studied. Here we report the discovery and analysis of the mating-type locus of the model organism Dictyostelium discoideum. Three forms of a single genetic locus specify this species' three mating types: two versions of the locus are entirely different in sequence, and the third resembles a composite of the other two. Single, unrelated genes are sufficient to determine two of the mating types, whereas homologs of both these genes are required in the composite type. The key genes encode polypeptides that possess no recognizable similarity to established protein families. Sex determination in the social amoebae thus appears to use regulators that are unrelated to any others currently known.

Beta, C. (2010). "Bistability in the actin cortex." PMC Biophys 3(1): 12.
	Multi-color fluorescence imaging experiments of wave forming Dictyostelium cells have revealed that actin waves separate two domains of the cell cortex that differ in their actin structure and phosphoinositide composition. We propose a bistable model of actin dynamics to account for these experimental observation. The model is based on the simplifying assumption that the actin cytoskeleton is composed of two distinct network types, a dendritic and a bundled network. The two structurally different states that were observed in experiments correspond to the stable fixed points in the bistable regime of this model. Each fixed point is dominated by one of the two network types. The experimentally observed actin waves can be considered as trigger waves that propagate transitions between the two stable fixed points.PACS Codes: 87.16.Ln, 87.17.Aa, 89.75.Fb.

Barry, N. P. and M. S. Bretscher (2010). "Dictyostelium amoebae and neutrophils can swim." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 107(25): 11376-11380.
	Animal cells migrating over a substratum crawl in amoeboid fashion; how the force against the substratum is achieved remains uncertain. We find that amoebae and neutrophils, cells traditionally used to study cell migration on a solid surface, move toward a chemotactic source while suspended in solution. They can swim and do so with speeds similar to those on a solid substrate. Based on the surprisingly rapidly changing shape of amoebae as they swim and earlier theoretical schemes for how suspended microorganisms can migrate (Purcell EM (1977) Life at low Reynolds number. Am J Phys 45:3-11), we suggest the general features these cells use to gain traction with the medium. This motion requires either the movement of the cell's surface from the cell's front toward its rear or protrusions that move down the length of the elongated cell. Our results indicate that a solid substratum is not a prerequisite for these cells to produce a forward thrust during movement and suggest that crawling and swimming are similar processes, a comparison we think is helpful in understanding how cells migrate.

Bakthavatsalam, D. and R. H. Gomer (2010). "The secreted proteome profile of developing Dictyostelium discoideum cells." Proteomics 10(13): 2556-2559.
	Dictyostelium discoideum is a unicellular eukaryote that, when starved, aggregates to form multicellular structures. In this report, we identified the proteins secreted by developing Dictyostelium cells using MS-based proteomics. A total of 349 different secreted proteins were identified, indicating that at least 2.6% of the 13 600 predicted proteins in the Dictyostelium genome are secreted. Gene ontology analysis suggests that many of the secreted proteins are involved in protein and carbohydrate metabolism, and proteolysis.

Baek, S. H., et al. (2010). "Rho-family small GTPases are required for cell polarization and directional sensing in Drosophila wound healing." Biochem Biophys Res Commun 394(3): 488-492.
	A wound induces cell polarization, in which myosin II is localized at the rear end of individual cells in a migrating epithelial sheet of the Drosophila larval epidermis. Here, we use myosin localization to demonstrate that Rac1, Cdc42, and Rho1 are each required for cell polarization and directional sensing of the wound. The three GTPases are also required for actin cable formation at the wound leading edge. Rac1, Cdc42, and Rho1 act upstream of c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK) to organize actin assembly. These results highlight the similarities between the molecular mechanism of Drosophila wound healing and those of Drosophila embryonic dorsal closure and the chemotactic response of Dictyostelium and leukocytes.

Bae, A. J. and E. Bodenschatz (2010). "On the swimming of Dictyostelium amoebae." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 107(44): E165-166.
	
Araki, T., et al. (2010). "Dual regulation of a Dictyostelium STAT by cGMP and Ca2+ signalling." J Cell Sci 123(Pt 6): 837-841.
	When cells are exposed to hyperosmotic stress, the Dictyostelium STAT orthologue STATc is rapidly tyrosine phosphorylated. Previous observations suggest a non-paradigmatic mode of STAT activation, whereby stress-induced serine phosphorylation of the PTP3 protein tyrosine phosphatase inhibits its activity towards STATc. We show that two serine residues in PTP3, S448 and S747, are rapidly phosphorylated after osmotic stress. cGMP is a second messenger for hyperosmotic stress response and 8-bromo-cGMP, a membrane-permeable form of cGMP, is a known activator of STATc. GbpC, a cGMP-binding Ras guanine nucleotide exchange factor protein, is a founder member of a protein family that includes LRRK2, the gene commonly mutated in familial Parkinson's disease. Genetic ablation of gbpC prevents STATc activation by 8-bromo-cGMP. However, osmotic-stress-induced activation of STATc occurs normally in the gbpC null mutant. Moreover, 8-bromo-cGMP does not stimulate phosphorylation of S448 and S747 of PTP3 in a wild-type strain. These facts imply the occurrence of redundant activation pathways. We present evidence that intracellular Ca(2+) is a parallel second messenger, by showing that agents that elevate intracellular Ca(2+) levels are potent STATc activators that stimulate phosphorylation of S448 and S747. We propose that stress-induced cGMP signalling exerts its stimulatory effect by potentiating the activity of a semi-constitutive tyrosine kinase that phosphorylates STATc, whereas parallel, stress-induced Ca(2+) signalling represses STATc dephosphorylation through its inhibitory effect on PTP3.

Arai, Y., et al. (2010). "Self-organization of the phosphatidylinositol lipids signaling system for random cell migration." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 107(27): 12399-12404.
	Phosphatidylinositol (PtdIns) lipids have been identified as key signaling mediators for random cell migration as well as chemoattractant-induced directional migration. However, how the PtdIns lipids are organized spatiotemporally to regulate cellular motility and polarity remains to be clarified. Here, we found that self-organized waves of PtdIns 3,4,5-trisphosphate [PtdIns(3,4,5)P(3)] are generated spontaneously on the membrane of Dictyostelium cells in the absence of a chemoattractant. Characteristic oscillatory dynamics within the PtdIns lipids signaling system were determined experimentally by observing the phenotypic variability of PtdIns lipid waves in single cells, which exhibited characteristics of a relaxation oscillator. The enzymes phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN) and phosphoinositide-3-kinase (PI3K), which are regulators for PtdIns lipid concentrations along the membrane, were essential for wave generation whereas functional actin cytoskeleton was not. Defects in these enzymes inhibited wave generation as well as actin-based polarization and cell migration. On the basis of these experimental results, we developed a reaction-diffusion model that reproduced the characteristic relaxation oscillation dynamics of the PtdIns lipid system, illustrating that a self-organization mechanism provides the basis for the PtdIns lipids signaling system to generate spontaneous spatiotemporal signals for random cell migration and that molecular noise derived from stochastic fluctuations within the signaling components gives rise to the variability of these spontaneous signals.

Apri, M., et al. (2010). "Efficient estimation of the robustness region of biological models with oscillatory behavior." PLoS One 5(4): e9865.
	Robustness is an essential feature of biological systems, and any mathematical model that describes such a system should reflect this feature. Especially, persistence of oscillatory behavior is an important issue. A benchmark model for this phenomenon is the Laub-Loomis model, a nonlinear model for cAMP oscillations in Dictyostelium discoideum. This model captures the most important features of biomolecular networks oscillating at constant frequencies. Nevertheless, the robustness of its oscillatory behavior is not yet fully understood. Given a system that exhibits oscillating behavior for some set of parameters, the central question of robustness is how far the parameters may be changed, such that the qualitative behavior does not change. The determination of such a "robustness region" in parameter space is an intricate task. If the number of parameters is high, it may be also time consuming. In the literature, several methods are proposed that partially tackle this problem. For example, some methods only detect particular bifurcations, or only find a relatively small box-shaped estimate for an irregularly shaped robustness region. Here, we present an approach that is much more general, and is especially designed to be efficient for systems with a large number of parameters. As an illustration, we apply the method first to a well understood low-dimensional system, the Rosenzweig-MacArthur model. This is a predator-prey model featuring satiation of the predator. It has only two parameters and its bifurcation diagram is available in the literature. We find a good agreement with the existing knowledge about this model. When we apply the new method to the high dimensional Laub-Loomis model, we obtain a much larger robustness region than reported earlier in the literature. This clearly demonstrates the power of our method. From the results, we conclude that the biological system underlying is much more robust than was realized until now.

Alam-Nazki, A. and J. Krishnan (2010). "A mathematical modelling framework for understanding chemorepulsive signal transduction in Dictyostelium." J Theor Biol 266(1): 140-153.
	Chemorepulsion is the process by which an organism or a cell moves in the direction of decreasing chemical concentration. While a few experimental studies have been performed, no mathematical models exist for this process. In this paper we have modelled gradient sensing, the first subprocess of chemorepulsion, in Dictyostelium discoideum-a well characterized model eukaryotic system. We take the first steps towards achieving a comprehensive mechanistic understanding of chemorepulsion in this system. We have used, as a basis, the biochemical network of the Keizer-Gunnink et al. (2007) to develop the mathematical modelling framework. This network describes the underlying pathways of chemorepellent gradient sensing in D. discoideum. Working within this modelling framework we address whether the postulated interactions of the pathways and species in this network can lead to a chemorepulsive response. We also analyse the possible role of additional regulatory effects (such as additional receptor regulation of enzymes in this network) and if this is necessary to achieve this behaviour. Thus we have investigated the receptor regulation of important enzymes and feedback effects in the network. This modelling framework generates important insights into and testable predictions regarding the role of key components and feedback loops in regulating chemorepulsive gradient sensing, and what factors might be important for generating a chemorepulsive response; it serves as a first step towards a comprehensive mechanistic understanding of this process.

Aguirre, J. and J. D. Lambeth (2010). "Nox enzymes from fungus to fly to fish and what they tell us about Nox function in mammals." Free Radic Biol Med 49(9): 1342-1353.
	The production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) in a highly regulated fashion is a hallmark of members of the NADPH oxidase (Nox) family of enzymes. Nox enzymes are present in most eukaryotic groups such as the amebozoid, fungi, algae and plants, and animals, in which they are involved in seemingly diverse biological processes. However, a comprehensive survey of Nox functions throughout biology reveals common functional themes. Noxes are often activated in response to stressful conditions such as nutrient starvation, physical damage, or pathogen attack. Although the end result varies depending on the organism and tissue, Nox-produced ROS mediate the response to the adverse stimuli, such as innate immunity responses in plants and animals or cell differentiation in Dictyostelium, fungi, and plants. These responses involve ROS-mediated signaling mechanisms occurring at intracellular or cell-to-cell levels and sometimes involve cell wall or extracellular matrix cross-linking. Indeed, Noxes are involved in local and systemic signaling from plants to fish and in cross-linking of the plant hair-cell wall, synthesis of the nematode cuticle, and formation of the sea urchin fertilization envelope. The extensive use of Nox enzymes in biology to regulate cell-to-cell signaling and morphogenesis suggests that additional functions in mammalian signaling and development remain to be discovered.

Adiba, S., et al. (2010). "From grazing resistance to pathogenesis: the coincidental evolution of virulence factors." PLoS One 5(8): e11882.
	To many pathogenic bacteria, human hosts are an evolutionary dead end. This begs the question what evolutionary forces have shaped their virulence traits. Why are these bacteria so virulent? The coincidental evolution hypothesis suggests that such virulence factors result from adaptation to other ecological niches. In particular, virulence traits in bacteria might result from selective pressure exerted by protozoan predator. Thus, grazing resistance may be an evolutionarily exaptation for bacterial pathogenicity. This hypothesis was tested by subjecting a well characterized collection of 31 Escherichia coli strains (human commensal or extra-intestinal pathogenic) to grazing by the social haploid amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum. We then assessed how resistance to grazing correlates with some bacterial traits, such as the presence of virulence genes. Whatever the relative population size (bacteria/amoeba) for a non-pathogenic bacteria strain, D. discoideum was able to phagocytise, digest and grow. In contrast, a pathogenic bacterium strain killed D. discoideum above a certain bacteria/amoeba population size. A plating assay was then carried out using the E. coli collection faced to the grazing of D. discoideum. E. coli strains carrying virulence genes such as iroN, irp2, fyuA involved in iron uptake, belonging to the B2 phylogenetic group and being virulent in a mouse model of septicaemia were resistant to the grazing from D. discoideum. Experimental proof of the key role of the irp gene in the grazing resistance was evidenced with a mutant strain lacking this gene. Such determinant of virulence may well be originally selected and (or) further maintained for their role in natural habitat: resistance to digestion by free-living protozoa, rather than for virulence per se.

Abedin, M. and N. King (2010). "Diverse evolutionary paths to cell adhesion." Trends Cell Biol 20(12): 734-742.
	The morphological diversity of animals, fungi, plants, and other multicellular organisms stems from the fact that each lineage acquired multicellularity independently. A prerequisite for each origin of multicellularity was the evolution of mechanisms for stable cell-cell adhesion or attachment. Recent advances in comparative genomics and phylogenetics provide critical insights into the evolutionary foundations of cell adhesion. Reconstructing the evolution of cell junction proteins in animals and their unicellular relatives exemplifies the roles of co-option and innovation. Comparative studies of volvocine algae reveal specific molecular changes that accompanied the evolution of multicellularity in Volvox. Comparisons between animals and Dictyostelium show how commonalities and differences in the biology of unicellular ancestors influenced the evolution of adhesive mechanisms. Understanding the unicellular ancestry of cell adhesion helps illuminate the basic cell biology of multicellular development in modern organisms.

Zhang, X. Y., et al. (2009). "Xpf and not the Fanconi anaemia proteins or Rev3 accounts for the extreme resistance to cisplatin in Dictyostelium discoideum." PLoS Genet 5(9): e1000645.
	Organisms like Dictyostelium discoideum, often referred to as DNA damage "extremophiles", can survive exposure to extremely high doses of radiation and DNA crosslinking agents. These agents form highly toxic DNA crosslinks that cause extensive DNA damage. However, little is known about how Dictyostelium and the other "extremophiles" can tolerate and repair such large numbers of DNA crosslinks. Here we describe a comprehensive genetic analysis of crosslink repair in Dictyostelium discoideum. We analyse three gene groups that are crucial for a replication-coupled repair process that removes DNA crosslinks in higher eukarya: The Fanconi anaemia pathway (FA), translesion synthesis (TLS), and nucleotide excision repair. Gene disruption studies unexpectedly reveal that the FA genes and the TLS enzyme Rev3 play minor roles in tolerance to crosslinks in Dictyostelium. However, disruption of the Xpf nuclease subcomponent results in striking hypersensitivity to crosslinks. Genetic interaction studies reveal that although Xpf functions with FA and TLS gene products, most Xpf mediated repair is independent of these two gene groups. These results suggest that Dictyostelium utilises a distinct Xpf nuclease-mediated repair process to remove crosslinked DNA. Other DNA damage-resistant organisms and chemoresistant cancer cells might adopt a similar strategy to develop resistance to DNA crosslinking agents.

Zhang, C. and A. Kuspa (2009). "Transcriptional down-regulation and rRNA cleavage in Dictyostelium discoideum mitochondria during Legionella pneumophila infection." PLoS One 4(5): e5706.
	Bacterial pathogens employ a variety of survival strategies when they invade eukaryotic cells. The amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum is used as a model host to study the pathogenic mechanisms that Legionella pneumophila, the causative agent of Legionnaire's disease, uses to kill eukaryotic cells. Here we show that the infection of D. discoideum by L. pneumophila results in a decrease in mitochondrial messenger RNAs, beginning more than 8 hours prior to detectable host cell death. These changes can be mimicked by hydrogen peroxide treatment, but not by other cytotoxic agents. The mitochondrial large subunit ribosomal RNA (LSU rRNA) is also cleaved at three specific sites during the course of infection. Two LSU rRNA fragments appear first, followed by smaller fragments produced by additional cleavage events. The initial LSU rRNA cleavage site is predicted to be on the surface of the large subunit of the mitochondrial ribosome, while two secondary sites map to the predicted interface with the small subunit. No LSU rRNA cleavage was observed after exposure of D. discoideum to hydrogen peroxide, or other cytotoxic chemicals that kill cells in a variety of ways. Functional L. pneumophila type II and type IV secretion systems are required for the cleavage, establishing a correlation between the pathogenesis of L. pneumophila and D. discoideum LSU rRNA destruction. LSU rRNA cleavage was not observed in L. pneumophila infections of Acanthamoeba castellanii or human U937 cells, suggesting that L. pneumophila uses distinct mechanisms to interrupt metabolism in different hosts. Thus, L. pneumophila infection of D. discoideum results in dramatic decrease of mitochondrial RNAs, and in the specific cleavage of mitochondrial rRNA. The predicted location of the cleavage sites on the mitochondrial ribosome suggests that rRNA destruction is initiated by a specific sequence of events. These findings suggest that L. pneumophila specifically disrupts mitochondrial protein synthesis in D. discoideum during the course of infection.

Yue, Z. (2009). "LRRK2 in Parkinson's disease: in vivo models and approaches for understanding pathogenic roles." Febs j.
	The recent discovery of the genetic causes for Parkinson's disease (PD) is fruitful; however, the continuing revelation of PD-related genes is rapidly outpacing the functional characterization of the gene products. Although the discovery of multiple PD-related genes places PD as one of the most complex multigenetic diseases of the brain, it will undoubtedly facilitate the unfolding of a central pathogenic pathway and an understanding of the etiology of PD. Recent findings of pathogenic mutations in leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) (PARK8) that are linked to the most common familial forms and some sporadic forms of PD provide a unique opportunity to gain insight into the pathogenesis of PD. Despite rapid growth in biochemical, structural and in vitro cell culture studies of LRRK2, the in vivo characterizations of LRRK2 function generally fall short and are largely limited to invertebrates. The investigation of LRRK2 or homologs of LRRK2 in nonmammalian models provides important clues with respect to the cellular functions of LRRK2, but an elucidation of the physiology and pathophysiology of LRRK2 relevant to PD would still depend on mammalian models established by multiple genetic approaches, followed by rigorous examination of the models for pathological process. This minireview summarizes previous studies of genes for ROCO and LRRK2 homologs in slime mold, nematode worms and fruit flies. It also discusses the results obtained from available mouse models of LRRK2 that begin to provide information for understanding LRRK2-mediated pathogenesis in PD.

Ying, M., et al. (2009). "Origin and evolution of ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes from Guillardia theta nucleomorph to hominoid." Gene 447(2): 72-85.
	The origin of eukaryotic ubiquitin-conjugating enzymes (E2s) can be traced back to the Guillardia theta nucleomorph about 2500 million years ago (Mya). E2s are largely vertically inherited over eukaryotic evolution [Lespinet, O., Wolf, Y.I., Koonin, E.V., Aravind, L., 2002. The role of lineage-specific gene family expansion in the evolution of eukaryotes. Genome Res. 1048-1059], while mammal E2s experienced evolution of multigene families by gene duplications which have been accompanied by the increase in the species complexity. Because of alternatively splicing, primate-specific expansions of E2s happened once again at a transcriptional level. Both of them resulted in increasing genomic complexity and diversity of primate E2 proteomic function. The evolutionary processes of human E2 gene structure during expansions were accompanied by exon duplication and exonization of intronic sequences. Exonizations of Transposable Elements (TEs) in UBE2D3, UBE2L3 and UBE2V1 genes from primates indicate that exaptation of TEs also plays important roles in the structural innovation of primate-specific E2s and may create alternative splicing isoforms at a transcriptional level. Estimates for the ratio of dN/dS suggest that a strong purifying selection had acted upon protein-coding sequences of their orthologous UBE2D2, UBE2A, UBE2N, UBE2I and Rbx1 genes from animals, plants and fungi. The similar rates of synonymous substitutions are in accordance with the neutral mutation-random drift hypothesis of molecular evolution. Systematic detection of the origin and evolution of E2s, analyzing the evolution of E2 multigene families by gene duplications and the evolutionary processes of E2s during expansions, and testing its evolutionary force using E2s from distant phylogenetic lineages may advance our distinguishing of ancestral E2s from created E2s, and reveal previously unknown relationships between E2s and metazoan complexity. Analysis of these conserved proteins provides strong support for a close relationship between social amoeba and eukaryote, choanoflagellate and metazoan, and for the central roles of social amoeba and choanoflagellate in the origin and evolution of eukaryote and metazoan. Retracing the different stages of primate E2 exonization by monitoring genomic events over 63 Myr of primate evolution will advance our understanding of how TEs dynamically modified primate transcriptome and proteome in the past, and continue to do so.

Yang, L. and P. A. Iglesias (2009). "Modeling spatial and temporal dynamics of chemotactic networks." Meth Mol Biol 571: 489-505.
	When stimulated by chemoattractants, eukaryotic cells respond through a combination of temporal and spatial dynamics. These responses come about because of the interaction of a large number of signaling components. The complexity of these systems makes it hard to understand without a means of systematically generating and testing hypotheses. Computer simulations have proved to be useful in testing conceptual models. Here we outline the steps required to develop these models.

Xu, X., et al. (2009). "Monitoring Dynamic GPCR Signaling Events Using Fluorescence Microscopy, FRET Imaging, and Single-Molecule Imaging." Meth Mol Biol 571: 371-383.
	How a eukaryotic cell translates a small concentration difference of a chemoattractant across the length of its surface into highly polarized intracellular responses is a fundamental question in chemotaxis. Chemoattractants are detected by G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs). Binding of chemoattractants to GPCRs induces the dissociation of heterotrimeric G-proteins into Galpha and Gbetagamma subunits, which in turn, activate downstream signaling networks. To fully understand the molecular mechanisms of chemotaxis, it is essential to quantitatively measure the dynamic changes of chemoattractant concentrations around cells, activation of heterotrimeric G-proteins, and the mobility of GPCR and G-protein subunits in the cell membrane. Here, we outline fluorescence imaging methods including Forster resonance energy transfer (FRET) imaging and a single-molecule analysis that allow us to measure the dynamic properties of GPCR signaling in single live cells.

Whitelam, S., et al. (2009). "Transformation from spots to waves in a model of actin pattern formation." Phys Rev Lett 102(19): 198103.
	Actin networks in certain single-celled organisms exhibit a complex pattern-forming dynamics that starts with the appearance of static spots of actin on the cell cortex. Spots soon become mobile, executing persistent random walks, and eventually give rise to traveling waves of actin. Here we describe a possible physical mechanism for this distinctive set of dynamic transformations, by equipping an excitable reaction-diffusion model with a field describing the spatial orientation of its chief constituent (which we consider to be actin). The interplay of anisotropic actin growth and spatial inhibition drives a transformation at fixed parameter values from static spots to moving spots to waves.

West, C. M., et al. (2009). "Dependence of stress resistance on a spore coat heteropolysaccharide in Dictyostelium." Euk Cell 8(1): 27-36.
	In Dictyostelium, sporulation occurs synchronously as prespore cells approach the apex of the aerial stalk during culmination. Each prespore cell becomes surrounded by its own coat comprised of a core of crystalline cellulose and a branched heteropolysaccharide sandwiched between heterogeneous cysteine-rich glycoproteins. The function of the heteropolysaccharide, which consists of galactose and N-acetylgalactosamine, is unknown. Two glycosyltransferase-like genes encoding multifunctional proteins, each with predicted features of a heteropolysaccharide synthase, were identified in the Dictyostelium discoideum genome. pgtB and pgtC transcripts were modestly upregulated during early development, and pgtB was further intensely upregulated at the time of heteropolysaccharide accumulation. Disruption of either gene reduced synthase-like activity and blocked heteropolysaccharide formation, based on loss of cytological labeling with a lectin and absence of component sugars after acid hydrolysis. Cell mixing experiments showed that heteropolysaccharide expression is spore cell autonomous, suggesting a physical association with other coat molecules during assembly. Mutant coats expressed reduced levels of crystalline cellulose based on chemical analysis after acid degradation, and cellulose was heterogeneously affected based on flow cytometry and electron microscopy. Mutant coats also contained elevated levels of selected coat proteins but not others and were sensitive to shear. Mutant spores were unusually susceptible to hypertonic collapse and damage by detergent or hypertonic stress. Thus, the heteropolysaccharide is essential for spore integrity, which can be explained by a role in the formation of crystalline cellulose and regulation of the protein content of the coat.

Wessels, D. J., et al. (2009). "Light microscopy to image and quantify cell movement." Meth Mol Biol 571: 455-471.
	For decades, Dictyostelium discoideum has been an efficacious and attractive model system for the study of cell motility, primarily because cells become highly motile during the transition from growth phase to aggregation competence and because the haploid genome is readily amenable to mutation. These crawling amoebae, as well as other motile cells such as polymorphonuclear neutrophils (PMNs), extend pseudopodia, retract pseudopodia, and translocate across a substratum even in the absence of chemoattractant. This phenomenon, referred to as basic motile behavior, has been investigated in Dictyostelium through analysis of cytoskeletal mutants. Likewise, many chemotactic signal transduction pathways and networks have been inferred from studies of Dictyostelium mutants. However, before concluding from mutational analyses that a particular molecule or protein plays a role in chemotaxis, it is imperative to first precisely define its contribution, if any, to basic motile behavior. Here, we describe two-dimensional and three-dimensional technologies that can be coupled with 2D and 3D Dynamic Image Analysis System (2D and 3D-DIAS) software for the analysis of cell motility, shape changes, pseudopod formation, and localization of tagged molecules during basic motile behavior. In addition, we describe a method to analyze the 3D trajectories of microspheres attached to the surface of crawling Dictyostelium cells. We include information on microscopy, image acquisition techniques, and computer hardware that could be reproduced in a typical laboratory setting for motion analysis using 2D and 3D-DIAS software. Finally, we highlight features available in DIAS that have proven insightful in identifying defects in basic motile behavior exhibited by various cytoskeletal and putative signal transduction mutants.

Wessels, D., et al. (2009). "2D and 3D Quantitative Analysis of Cell Motility and Cytoskeletal Dynamics." Meth Mol Biol 586: 315-335.
	2D- and 3D-Dynamic Image Analysis Systems (2D- and 3D-DIAS) for quantitative analysis of cell motility and chemotaxis are described. Particular attention is given to protocols that have proven useful in the quantitation of cell shape changes and pseudopod dynamics during basic cell motility (i.e. crawling in the absence of a chemotactic or other type of extracellular signal) and directed motion. In addition, methods provided, highlight the applicability of this approach to the accurate phenotypic characterizations of cytoskeletal mutations in Dictyostelium discoideum, cytoskeletal alterations in metastatic cells, and cytoskeletal defects in chemotactically defective polymorphonuclear neutrophils.

Wen, Y., et al. (2009). "AP180-Mediated Trafficking of Vamp7B Limits Homotypic Fusion of Dictyostelium Contractile Vacuoles." Mol Biol Cell 20(20): 4278-4288.
	Clathrin-coated vesicles play an established role in endocytosis from the plasma membrane, but they are also found on internal organelles. We examined the composition of clathrin-coated vesicles on an internal organelle responsible for osmoregulation, the Dictyostelium discoideum contractile vacuole. Clathrin puncta on contractile vacuoles contained multiple accessory proteins typical of plasma membrane-coated pits, including AP2, AP180, and epsin, but not Hip1r. To examine how these clathrin accessory proteins influenced the contractile vacuole, we generated cell lines that carried single and double gene knockouts in the same genetic background. Single or double mutants that lacked AP180 or AP2 exhibited abnormally large contractile vacuoles. The enlarged contractile vacuoles in AP180-null mutants formed because of excessive homotypic fusion among contractile vacuoles. The SNARE protein Vamp7B was mislocalized and enriched on the contractile vacuoles of AP180-null mutants. In vitro assays revealed that AP180 interacted with the cytoplasmic domain of Vamp7B. We propose that AP180 directs Vamp7B into clathrin-coated vesicles on contractile vacuoles, creating an efficient mechanism for regulating the internal distribution of fusion-competent SNARE proteins and limiting homotypic fusions among contractile vacuoles. Dictyostelium contractile vacuoles offer a valuable system to study clathrin-coated vesicles on internal organelles within eukaryotic cells.

Weijer, C. J. (2009). "Collective cell migration in development." J Cell Sci 122(18): 3215-3223.
	Collective cell migration is a key process during the development of most organisms. It can involve either the migration of closely packed mesenchymal cells that make dynamic contacts with frequently changing neighbour cells, or the migration of epithelial sheets that typically display more stable cell-cell interactions and less frequent changes in neighbours. These collective movements can be controlled by short-or long-range dynamic gradients of extracellular signalling molecules, depending on the number of cells involved and their distance of migration. These gradients are sensed by some or all of the migrating cells and translated into directed migration, which in many settings is further modulated by cell-contact-mediated attractive or repulsive interactions that result in contact-following or contact-inhibition of locomotion, respectively. Studies of collective migration of groups of epithelial cells during development indicate that, in some cases, only leader cells sense and migrate up an external signal gradient, and that adjacent cells follow through strong cell-cell contacts. In this Commentary, I review studies of collective cell migration of differently sized cell populations during the development of several model organisms, and discuss our current understanding of the molecular mechanisms that coordinate this migration.

Weber, S. S., et al. (2009). "The inositol polyphosphate 5-phosphatase OCRL1 restricts intracellular growth of Legionella, localizes to the replicative vacuole and binds to the bacterial effector LpnE." Cell Microbiol 11(3): 442-460.
	Legionella pneumophila, the causative agent of Legionnaires' disease, replicates within a specific vacuole in amoebae and macrophages. To form these 'Legionella-containing vacuoles' (LCVs), the bacteria employ the Icm/Dot type IV secretion system and effector proteins, some of which anchor to the LCV membrane via the host glycolipid phosphatidylinositol 4-phosphate [PtdIns(4)P]. Here we analysed the role of inositol polyphosphate 5-phosphatases (IP5Ps) during L. pneumophila infections. Bacterial replication and LCV formation occurred more efficiently in Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae lacking the IP5P Dd5P4, a homologue of human OCRL1 (Oculocerebrorenal syndrome of Lowe), implicated in retrograde endosome to Golgi trafficking. The phenotype was complemented by Dd5P4 but not the catalytically inactive 5-phosphatase. Ectopically expressed Dd5P4 or OCRL1 localized to LCVs in D. discoideum via an N-terminal domain previously not implicated in membrane targeting, and OCRL1 was also identified on LCVs in macrophages. Dd5P4 was catalytically active on LCVs and accumulated on LCVs harbouring wild-type but not DeltaicmT mutant L. pneumophila. The N-terminal domain of OCRL1 bound L. pneumophila LpnE, a Sel1-like repeat protein involved in LCV formation, which localizes to LCVs and selectively binds PtdIns(3)P. Our results indicate that OCRL1 restricts intracellular growth of L. pneumophila and binds to LCVs in association with LpnE.

Wang, Z. A., et al. (2009). "Role of a cytoplasmic dual-function glycosyltransferase in O2 regulation of development in Dictyostelium." J Biol Chem 284(42): 28896-28904.
	In the social amoeba Dictyostelium, a terminal step in development is regulated by environmental O(2). Prolyl 4-hydroxylase-1 (P4H1) was previously implicated in mediating the O(2) signal, and P4H1-null cells require elevated O(2) to culminate. The E3-ubiquitin ligase adaptor Skp1 is a P4H1 substrate, and here we investigate the function of PgtA, a dual function beta3-galactosyltransferase/alpha2-fucosyltransferase that contributes the 2nd and 3rd sugars of the pentasaccharide cap formed on Skp1 hydroxyproline. Although pgtA-null cells, whose Skp1 contains only a single sugar (N-acetylglucosamine or GlcNAc), show wild-type O(2) dependence of culmination, cells lacking AgtA, an alpha3-galactosyltransferase required to extend the trisaccharide, require elevated O(2) as for P4H1-null cells. Skp1 is the only detectable protein modified by purified PgtA added to pgtA-null extracts. The basis for specificity of PgtA was investigated using native Skp1 acceptor glycoforms and a novel synthetic peptide containing GlcNAcalpha1,4-hydroxy(trans)proline. Cysteine-alkylation of Skp1 strongly inhibited modification by the PgtA galactosyltransferase but not the fucosyltransferase. Furthermore, native and synthetic Skp1 glycopeptides were poorly galactosylated, not processively fucosylated, and negligibly inhibitory, whereas the fucosyltransferase was active toward small substrates. In addition, the galactosyltransferase exhibited an atypical concentration dependence on UDP-galactose. The results provide the first evidence that Skp1 is the functional target of P4H1 in O(2) regulation, indicate a gatekeeper function for the beta3-galactosyltransferase in the PgtA dual reaction, and identify an unexpected P4H1-dependent yet antagonistic function for PgtA that is reversed by AgtA.

Wang, Z. A., et al. (2009). Skp1 mediates O2-dependent development in Dictyostelium. 34th Annual Graduate Student Research Symposium, University of Oklahoma, Health Sciences Center.
	When starved, the soil amoeba Dictyostelium aggregates at an air-water interface to form a slug that subsequently culminates into a fruiting body consisting of a stalk and aerial spores. We have previously shown that culmination requires high oxygen by a mechanism that depends on the Skp1 prolyl 4-hydroxylase (P4H1). As a subunit of E3(SCF) ubiquitin ligases, Skp1 may influence the cellular proteome via protein turnover. Two almost identical Skp1 genes are expressed in Dictyostelium. To investigate the role of Skp1, we created strains harboring 1, 2, or 3 Skp1 genes, and a strain in which one of the Skp1s carried an amino acid substitution at the hydroxyproline site. Developmental analysis showed that increased Skp1 gene dosage correlated with an increased oxygen requirement for culmination, in a proline-dependent fashion. Biochemical analysis showed that Skp1 gene dosage partially correlated with protein level in the cell. In contrast, cells that under or overexpress P4H1 exhibit the opposite pattern of oxygen requirement. Since Skp1 likely functions through its associated E3-ubiquitin ligase, we propose that increased Skp1 degrades an activator of culmination. Since P4H1 acts in the opposite direction, we propose that hydroxylation (and dependent glycosylation) inhibit Skp1. O2 activates P4H1 as its substrate. These interpretations lead to the following signaling model for O2-dependent regulation of development in Dictyostelium, and other organisms that this pathway is found: O2àP4H1—I Skp1—I activators àculmination.

Wang, H. Y. and J. G. Williams (2009). "Identification of a target for CudA, the transcription factor which directs formation of the Dictyostelium tip organiser." Int J Dev Biol.
	The tip of the Dictyostelium slug functions much like an embryonic organiser; when grafted onto the flank of a recipient slug, it recruits a mass of prespore cells and leads them away as part of a secondary slug. CudA is a nuclear protein which is expressed in prespore cells where it acts as a specific transcription factor. CudA is also expressed in an anteriorly located group of cells, the tip-organiser, that is believed to constitute the functional tip. We identify an expansin-like gene, expl7, that is expressed within the tip-organiser region and which is not expressed in a cudA null strain. The expl7 promoter contains a region that binds to CudA in vitro and this region is necessary for expression in the tip-organiser. These results provide an end-point for a previously defined signal transduction pathway in which regionalised expression of the ACA adenylyl cyclase within the tip-organiser leads to localised cAMP-induced activation of STATa and consequent binding of STATa to the cudA promoter. STATa then induces expression of cudA and cudA directs the transcription of target genes such as expl7.

Wang, F. (2009). "The signaling mechanisms underlying cell polarity and chemotaxis." CSH Persp. Biol. 1(4): a002980 (002916 pages).
	Chemotaxis—the directed movement of cells in a gradient of chemoattractant—is essential for neutrophils to crawl to sites of inflammation and infection and for Dictyostelium discoideum (D. discoideum) to aggregate during morphogenesis. Chemoattractant-induced activation of spatially localized cellular signals causes cells to polarize and move toward the highest concentration of the chemoattractant. Extensive studies have been devoted to achieving a better understanding of the mechanism(s) used by a neutrophil to choose its direction of polarity and to crawl effectively in response to chemoattractant gradients. Recent technological advances are beginning to reveal many fascinating details of the intracellular signaling components that spatially direct the cytoskeleton of neutrophils and D. discoideum and the complementary mechanisms that make the cell's front distinct from its back. 

Vlahou, G., et al. (2009). "Yersinia outer protein YopE affects the actin cytoskeleton in Dictyostelium discoideum through targeting of multiple Rho family GTPases." BMC Microbiol 9: 138.
	BACKGROUND: All human pathogenic Yersinia species share a virulence-associated type III secretion system that translocates Yersinia effector proteins into host cells to counteract infection-induced signaling responses and prevent phagocytosis. Dictyostelium discoideum has been recently used to study the effects of bacterial virulence factors produced by internalized pathogens. In this study we explored the potential of Dictyostelium as model organism for analyzing the effects of ectopically expressed Yersinia outer proteins (Yops). RESULTS: The Yersinia pseudotuberculosis virulence factors YopE, YopH, YopM and YopJ were expressed de novo within Dictyostelium and their effects on growth in axenic medium and on bacterial lawns were analyzed. No severe effect was observed for YopH, YopJ and YopM, but expression of YopE, which is a GTPase activating protein for Rho GTPases, was found to be highly detrimental. GFP-tagged YopE expressing cells had less conspicuous cortical actin accumulation and decreased amounts of F-actin. The actin polymerization response upon cAMP stimulation was impaired, although chemotaxis was unaffected. YopE also caused reduced uptake of yeast particles. These alterations are probably due to impaired Rac1 activation. We also found that YopE predominantly associates with intracellular membranes including the Golgi apparatus and inhibits the function of moderately overexpressed RacH. CONCLUSION: The phenotype elicited by YopE in Dictyostelium can be explained, at least in part, by inactivation of one or more Rho family GTPases. It further demonstrates that the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum can be used as an efficient and easy-to-handle model organism in order to analyze the function of a translocated GAP protein of a human pathogen.

Vial, L., et al. (2009). "Phase variation has a role in Burkholderia ambifaria niche adaptation." ISME J.
	Members of the Burkholderia cepacia complex (Bcc), such as B. ambifaria, are effective biocontrol strains, for instance, as plant growth-promoting bacteria; however, Bcc isolates can also cause severe respiratory infections in people suffering from cystic fibrosis (CF). No distinction is known between isolates from environmental and human origins, suggesting that the natural environment is a potential source of infectious Bcc species. While investigating the presence and role of phase variation in B. ambifaria HSJ1, an isolate recovered from a CF patient, we identified stable variants that arose spontaneously irrespective of the culture conditions. Phenotypic and proteomic approaches revealed that the transition from wild-type to variant types affects the expression of several putative virulence factors. By using four different infection models (Drosophila melanogaster, Galleria mellonella, macrophages and Dictyostelium discoideum), we showed that the wild-type was more virulent than the variant. It may be noted that the variant showed reduced replication in a human monocyte cell line when compared with the wild-type. On the other hand, the variant of isolate HSJ1 was more competitive in colonizing plant roots than the wild-type. Furthermore, we observed that only clinical B. ambifaria isolates generated phase variants, and that these variants showed the same phenotypes as observed with the HSJ1 variant. Finally, we determined that environmental B. ambifaria isolates showed traits that were characteristic of variants derived from clinical isolates. Our study therefore suggest that B. ambifaria uses phase variation to adapt to drastically different environments: the lung of patients with CF or the rhizosphere.The ISME Journal advance online publication, 27 August 2009; doi:10.1038/ismej.2009.95.

Veltman, D. M., et al. (2009). "An extrachromosomal, inducible expression system for Dictyostelium discoideum." Plasmid 61(2): 119-125.
	Inducible expression systems are essential for the expression of toxic proteins and are very convenient for proteins that induce strong side effects such as retardation of growth or development. Currently available systems for use in Dictyostelium either do not have a very tight control over expression levels or use a combination of an integrating and an extrachromosomal vector. We designed a new vector in which all components of the available 2-plasmid tetracycline-inducible system were combined onto a single extrachromosomal vector. Two types of inducible plasmids are presented, in which transcription is induced by adding or removing doxycycline, respectively. The location and orientation of the components was optimized in order to obtain a low background expression combined with high inducibility. The resulting vectors have a very low expression in the uninduced state (>1000-fold lower expression compared to that resulting from the act15 promoter), show a 10,000-fold induction of gene expression in a doxycycline concentration-dependent manner and are comparatively small (8.5 kb). With these new vectors, inducible gene expression is as easy as constitutive gene expression.

Veltman, D. M., et al. (2009). "A new set of small, extrachromosomal expression vectors for Dictyostelium discoideum." Plasmid 61(2): 110-118.
	A new set of extrachromosomal Dictyostelium expression vectors is presented that can be modified according to the experimental needs with minimal cloning efforts. To achieve this, the vector consists of four functional regions that are separated by unique restriction sites, (1) an Escherichia coli replication region, and regions for (2) replication, (3) selection and (4) protein expression in Dictyostelium. Each region was trimmed down to its smallest possible size. A basic expression vector can be constructed from these modules with a size of only 6.8 kb. By exchanging modules, a large number of vectors with different properties can be constructed. The resulting set of vectors allows most basic expression needs, such as immuno blotting, protein purification, visualization of protein localization and identification of protein-protein interactions. In addition, two genes can be simultaneously expressed on one vector, which yields far more synchronous levels of expression than when expressing two genes on separate plasmids.

Vats, B. and H. Padh (2009). "Efficient cell lysis method for isolation of total RNA from slime mold Dictyostelium: 
Applicability in preparation of cDNA." Int. J. Biotechnol. Biochem. 5(1): 51-62.
	Dictyostelium is a model organism for understanding of many cellular processes, 
evolutionary studies, behavioral analysis, gene expression and now even drug 
metabolism. RNA analysis is vital to most studies at molecular level. Extracting 
RNA is no easy task due to the omnipresence of robust RNases. Attaining full 
length mRNAs is the chief task in isolation of pure RNA. Stable ribonucleases 
are the major obstacle in isolating RNA of any kind. Many methods and kits are 
available for different organisms with differing efficiency, utility and expense. 
For isolation of RNA from Dictyostelium, Blumberg and Lodish devised a simple, 
in-expensive yet effective method, though for identification of mRNA use of 
DNase and poly-dT columns were required. We modified the cell 
homogenization process and isolated total RNA with the method. The 
modification enables us to detect specific mRNA from the total RNA pool 
without purifying through poly-dT columns or processing for DNA removal. The 
integrity of RNA isolated by the modified method was similar to that of RNA 
extracted with Qiagen RNAasy Mini kit indicative of the quality of the total RNA
 extracted. With this modification, we have been able to identify three mRNA 
transcripts and specifically amplify the cDNA using sequence specific primers.

Vats, B. and H. Padh (2009). "DNA passage to nuclei: role of endo-lysosomal circuit in eukaryotic Dictyostelium." Can J Microbiol 55(5): 617-621.
	The understanding of DNA passage in eukaryotic cells is still very ambiguous. The route to the nucleus is difficult owing to the barriers, metabolic as well as membranous, posed by the eukaryotic cells. Endocytosis appears to be the most likely process responsible for the transport but is also the major culprit of low transfection efficiencies. Here, we report a study on a eukaryotic amoeba, Dictyostelium discoideum, where by disruption of the endocytic process at the opportune moment, the transformant number increased. We have observed that by disruption of fluid-phase uptake of calcium phosphate DNA nanoparticles, the number of clones increased with the probable increase in number of foreign genes integrating in the host genome. The method described here leads to the possibility of safe and inexpensive methods for transfer of genes required for heterologous recombinant protein production as well as generating therapeutic recombinant cells.

Vanag, V. K. and I. R. Epstein (2009). "Pattern formation mechanisms in reaction-diffusion systems." Int J Dev Biol 53(5-6): 673-681.
	In systems undergoing chemical reaction and diffusion, a remarkable variety of spatially structured patterns, stationary or moving, local or global, can arise, many of them reminiscent of forms and phenomena seen in living systems. Chemical systems offer the advantage that one can often control the parameters that determine the patterns formed and can thereby probe fundamental issues about pattern formation, with possible insights into biologically relevant phenomena. We present experimental examples and discuss several mechanisms by which such spatiotemporal structure may arise, classifying the mechanisms according to the type of instability that results in pattern formation. In some systems, the pattern that emerges depends not only on the chemical and physical parameters but also on the initial state of the system. Interactions between instabilities can result in particularly complex patterns.

Van Haastert, P. J. M. and L. Bosgraaf (2009). "The local cell curvature guides pseudopodia towards chemoattractants." Hfsp Journal 3(4): 282-286.
	Many eukaryotic cells use pseudopodia for movement towards chemoattractants. We developed a computer algorithm to identify pseudopodia, and analyzed how pseudopodia of Dictyostelium cells are guided toward cAMP. Surprisingly, the direction of a pseudopod is not actively oriented toward the gradient, but is always perpendicular to the local cell curvature. The gradient induces a bias in the position where the pseudopod emerges: pseudopodia more likely emerge at the side of the cell closer to the gradient where perpendicular pseudopodia are pointed automatically toward the chemoattractant. A mutant lacking the formin dDia2 is not spherical but has many invaginations. Although pseudopodia still emerge at the side closer to the gradient, the surface curvature is so irregular that many pseudopodia are not extended toward cAMP. The results imply that the direction of the pseudopod extension, and therefore also the direction of cell movement, is dominated by two aspects: the position at the cell surface where a pseudopod emerges, and the local curvature of the membrane at that position. [DOI: 10.2976/1.3185725]

Van Haastert, P. J. and L. Bosgraaf (2009). "Food searching strategy of amoeboid cells by starvation induced run length extension." PLoS One 4(8): e6814.
	Food searching strategies of animals are key to their success in heterogeneous environments. The optimal search strategy may include specialized random walks such as Levy walks with heavy power-law tail distributions, or persistent walks with preferred movement in a similar direction. We have investigated the movement of the soil amoebae Dictyostelium searching for food. Dictyostelium cells move by extending pseudopodia, either in the direction of the previous pseudopod (persistent step) or in a different direction (turn). The analysis of approximately 4000 pseudopodia reveals that step and turn pseudopodia are drawn from a probability distribution that is determined by cGMP/PLA2 signaling pathways. Starvation activates these pathways thereby suppressing turns and inducing steps. As a consequence, starved cells make very long nearly straight runs and disperse over approximately 30-fold larger areas, without extending more or larger pseudopodia than vegetative cells. This 'win-stay/lose-shift' strategy for food searching is called Starvation Induced Run-length Extension. The SIRE walk explains very well the observed differences in search behavior between fed and starving organisms such as bumble-bees, flower bug, hoverfly and zooplankton.

Valeyev, N. V., et al. (2009). "Computational modelling suggests dynamic interactions between Ca2+, IP3 and G protein-coupled modules are key to robust Dictyostelium aggregation." Mol Biosyst 5(6): 612-628.
	Under conditions of starvation, Dictyostelium cells begin a programme of development during which they aggregate to form a multicellular structure by chemotaxis, guided by propagating waves of cyclic AMP that are relayed robustly from cell to cell. In this paper, we develop and analyse a new model for the intracellular and extracellular cAMP dependent processes that regulate Dictyostelium migration. The model allows, for the first time, a quantitative analysis of the dynamic interactions between calcium, IP(3) and G protein-dependent modules that are shown to be key to the generation of robust cAMP oscillations in Dictyostelium cells. The model provides a mechanistic explanation for the transient increase in cytosolic free Ca(2+) concentration seen in recent experiments with the application of the calmodulin inhibitor calmidazolium (R24571) to Dictyostelium cells, and also allows elucidation of the effects of varying both the conductivity of stretch-activated channels and the concentration of external phosphodiesterase on the oscillatory regime of an individual cell. A rigorous analysis of the robustness of the new model shows that interactions between the different modules significantly reduce the sensitivity of the resulting cAMP oscillations to variations in the kinetics of different Dictyostelium cells, an essential requirement for the generation of the spatially and temporally synchronised chemoattractant cAMP waves that guide Dictyostelium aggregation.

Urwyler, S., et al. (2009). "Proteome analysis of Legionella vacuoles purified by magnetic immunoseparation reveals secretory and endosomal GTPases." Traffic 10(1): 76-87.
	Legionella pneumophila, the causative agent of Legionnaires' disease, replicates in macrophages and amoebae within 'Legionella-containing vacuoles' (LCVs), which communicate with the early secretory pathway and the endoplasmic reticulum. Formation of LCVs requires the bacterial Icm/Dot type IV secretion system. The Icm/Dot-translocated effector protein SidC selectively anchors to LCVs by binding the host lipid phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate (PtdIns(4)P). Here, we describe a novel and simple approach to purify intact vacuoles formed by L. pneumophila within Dictyostelium discoideum by using magnetic immunoseparation with an antibody against SidC, followed by density gradient centrifugation. To monitor LCV purification by fluorescence microscopy, we used Dictyostelium producing the LCV marker calnexin-GFP and L. pneumophila labeled with the red fluorescent protein DsRed. A proteome analysis of purified LCVs by liquid chromatography coupled to tandem mass spectrometry revealed 566 host proteins, including known LCV components, such as the small GTPases Arf1, Rab1 and Rab7. Rab8, an endosomal regulator of the late secretory pathway originating from the trans Golgi network, and the endosomal GTPase Rab14 were identified as novel LCV components, which were found to be present on vacuoles harboring wild-type but not Icm/Dot-deficient L. pneumophila. Thus, LCVs also communicate with the late secretory and endosomal pathways. Depletion of Rab8 or Arf1 by RNA interference reduced the amount of SidC on LCVs, indicating that the GTPases promote the recruitment of Legionella effectors by regulating the level of PtdIns(4)P.

Urushihara, H. (2009). "The cellular slime mold: eukaryotic model microorganism." Exp Anim 58(2): 97-104.
	Cellular slime molds are eukaryotic microorganisms in the soil. They feed on bacteria as solitary amoebae but conditionally construct multicellular forms in which cell differentiation takes place. Therefore, they are attractive for the study of fundamental biological phenomena such as phagocytosis, cell division, chemotactic movements, intercellular communication, cell differentiation, and morphogenesis. The most widely used species, Dictyostelium discoideum, is highly amenable to experimental manipulation and can be used with most recent molecular biological techniques. Its genome and cDNA analyses have been completed and well-annotated data are publicly available. A larger number of orthologues of human disease-related genes were found in D. discoideum than in yeast. Moreover, some pathogenic bacteria infect Dictyostelium amoebae. Thus, this microorganism can also offer a good experimental system for biomedical research. The resources of cellular slime molds, standard strains, mutants, and genes are maintained and distributed upon request by the core center of the National BioResource Project (NBRP-nenkin) to support Dictyostelium community users as well as new users interested in new platforms for research and/or phylogenic consideration.

Underwood, J. (2009). An analysis of the mechanism of Dictyostelium myosin heavy chain kinase B in substrate targeting. United States -- North Carolina, The University of North Carolina at Greensboro: 49.
	Previous studies have shown that myosin heavy chain kinase A and B (MHKA and MHKB) are able to phosphorylate and disassemble Dictyostelium discoideum myosin II bipolar filaments by directly targeting myosin II via a conserved region of WD repeats, also referred to as the WD repeat domain. MHKA lacking this domain is unable to phosphorylate myosin II. By comparison, MHKB lacking this same domain is able to phosphorylate myosin II, albeit at a significantly reduced level compared to the full-length protein. The main difference between the MHKA and MHKB proteins is the presence of a region of MHKB in which the amino acid asparagine is repeated 25 times, called the asparagine-rich (pN) region. The function of this region has not been well studied. The research described in this thesis focuses on the asparagine-rich and WD repeat domains of MHKB and their roles in targeting myosin II for phosphorylation. My studies revealed that overexpressing full-length MHKB in Dictyostelium cells resulted in slowed growth rates due to cytokinesis defects in which cells become large and multinucleated. MHKB lacking the WD repeat domain (MHKB-”WD) also showed this large multinucleated phenotype and slowed growth rate. However, cells overexpressing a truncation of MHKB lacking both the WD and pN regions (MHKB-”pN-WD) grew normally and did not become multi-nucleated; indicating that the WD repeat domain is not the only targeting region of MHKB. Triton X-100 cytoskeleton fractionation assays revealed that cells overexpressing full-length MHKB or MHKB-”WD have more myosin II in the cytosol than in the cytoskeleton, which is indicative of myosin II being phosphorylated and disassembled by these two versions of MHKB. By contrast, the myosin II in cells overexpressing the MHKB-”pN-WD truncation was located primarily in the cytoskeletal fraction, suggesting that the poly-asparagine region of MHKB may be involved in targeting the kinase to phosphorylate myosin II heavy chain (MHC). Biochemical assays of kinase activity toward myosin II substrate revealed that while full-length MHKB and the MHKB-”WD truncation were able to phosphorylate myosin II, the activity of the MHKB-”pN-WD truncation toward myosin II substrate was below the limits of detection. This is despite the fact that all three versions of the kinase phosphorylate a peptide substrate to essentially the same level. In summary, MHKB has two major regions involved in targeting myosin II for phosphorylation. The WD-repeat domain is known to directly target myosin II, but is not necessary for the kinase to function. My studies of this system have revealed that the pN region, in combination with the WD-repeat domain, is necessary for MHKB to target myosin II for phosphorylation.

Tokuraku, K., et al. (2009). "Novel mode of cooperative binding between myosin and Mg2+ -actin filaments in the presence of low concentrations of ATP." J Mol Biol 386(1): 149-162.
	Cooperative interaction between myosin and actin filaments has been detected by a number of different methods, and has been suggested to have some role in force generation by the actomyosin motor. In this study, we observed the binding of myosin to actin filaments directly using fluorescence microscopy to analyze the mechanism of the cooperative interaction in more detail. For this purpose, we prepared fluorescently labeled heavy meromyosin (HMM) of rabbit skeletal muscle myosin and Dictyostelium myosin II. Both types of HMMs formed fluorescent clusters along actin filaments when added at substoichiometric amounts. Quantitative analysis of the fluorescence intensity of the HMM clusters revealed that there are two distinct types of cooperative binding. The stronger form was observed along Ca(2+)-actin filaments with substoichiometric amounts of bound phalloidin, in which the density of HMM molecules in the clusters was comparable to full decoration. The novel, weaker form was observed along Mg(2+)-actin filaments with and without stoichiometric amounts of phalloidin. HMM density in the clusters of the weaker form was several-fold lower than full decoration. The weak cooperative binding required sub-micromolar ATP, and did not occur in the absence of nucleotides or in the presence of ADP and ADP-Vi. The G680V mutant of Dictyostelium HMM, which over-occupies the ADP-Pi bound state in the presence of actin filaments and ATP, also formed clusters along Mg(2+)-actin filaments, suggesting that the weak cooperative binding of HMM to actin filaments occurs or initiates at an intermediate state of the actomyosin-ADP-Pi complex other than that attained by adding ADP-Vi.

Tinsley, M. R., et al. (2009). "Emergence of collective behavior in groups of excitable catalyst-loaded particles: spatiotemporal dynamical quorum sensing." Phys Rev Lett 102(15): 158301.
	Spontaneous spatiotemporal wave activity occurs in groups of excitable particles for groups larger than a critical size. Experiments are carried out with particles loaded with the catalyst of the Belousov-Zhabotinsky reaction that are immersed in catalyst-free reaction mixture. The particles diffusively exchange activator and inhibitor species with the surrounding solution. All particles are nonoscillatory when separated from the other particles; however, target and spiral waves are exhibited in sufficiently large groups. A cellular particle model of the system also exhibits transitions from excitable steady state behavior to spatiotemporal wave activity with increasing group size.

Tikhonenko, I., et al. (2009). "Microtubule-nucleus interactions in Dictyostelium discoideum mediated by central motor kinesins." Euk Cell 8(5): 723-731.
	Kinesins are a diverse superfamily of motor proteins that drive organelles and other microtubule-based movements in eukaryotic cells. These motors play important roles in multiple events during both interphase and cell division. Dictyostelium discoideum contains 13 kinesin motors, 12 of which are grouped into nine families, plus one orphan. Functions for 11 of the 13 motors have been previously investigated; we address here the activities of the two remaining kinesins, both isoforms with central motor domains. Kif6 (of the kinesin-13 family) appears to be essential for cell viability. The partial knockdown of Kif6 with RNA interference generates mitotic defects (lagging chromosomes and aberrant spindle assemblies) that are consistent with kinesin-13 disruptions in other organisms. However, the orphan motor Kif9 participates in a completely novel kinesin activity, one that maintains a connection between the microtubule-organizing center (MTOC) and nucleus during interphase. kif9 null cell growth is impaired, and the MTOC appears to disconnect from its normally tight nuclear linkage. Mitotic spindles elongate in a normal fashion in kif9(-) cells, but we hypothesize that this kinesin is important for positioning the MTOC into the nuclear envelope during prophase. This function would be significant for the early steps of cell division and also may play a role in regulating centrosome replication.

Takahashi-Yanaga, F. and T. Sasaguri (2009). "Drug development targeting the glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK-3beta)-mediated signal transduction pathway: inhibitors of the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway as novel anticancer drugs." J Pharmacol Sci 109(2): 179-183.
	Accumulating evidence suggests that the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway is often involved in oncogenesis and cancer development. Accordingly, a novel anticancer drug can be developed using inhibitors of this pathway. However, at present, there is no selective inhibitor of this pathway available as a therapeutic agent. Although all the components of the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway can be a target for drug development, glycogen synthase kinase-3beta (GSK-3beta), in particular, may be a good target because GSK-3beta is an essential component of the pathway, and activation of this kinase results in the inhibition of the Wnt signaling pathway. We found that the differentiation-inducing factors (DIFs), putative morphogens for Dictyostelium discoideum, inhibit the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway via the activation of GSK-3beta, resulting in the cell-cycle arrest of human cancer cell lines. In this review, we summarize our recent findings on the antiproliferative effect of DIFs and show the possibility for development of a novel anticancer drug from DIFs and their derivatives.

Takahashi, K., et al. (2009). "Regulation of IL-2 production in Jurkat cells by Dictyostelium-derived factors." Life Sci 85(11-12): 438-443.
	AIMS: Differentiation-inducing factors (DIFs) are chlorinated alkylphenones found in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. DIF derivatives exhibit antiproliferative activities and promote glucose consumption in mammalian cells in vitro. In this study, we assessed the ability of DIFs to regulate the immune system and investigated their mechanisms of action. MAIN METHODS: We examined the effects of 30 DIF derivatives on concanavalin A-induced IL-2 production (CIIP) in Jurkat T-cells. We also examined the effects of some DIF derivatives on the activity of AP-1 (activator protein-1), NFAT (nuclear factor of activated T-cells), and NFkappaB (nuclear factor kappa B), which are transcription factors required for CIIP. KEY FINDINGS: Of the derivatives tested, some compounds suppressed CIIP as well as the known immunosuppressants cyclosporine A and FK506. A reporter gene assay revealed that 4 DIF derivatives tested suppressed CIIP, at least in part, by inhibiting the activity of AP-1, NFAT, and/or NFkappaB. Unlike cyclosporine A and FK506, the DIF derivatives had little effect on concanavalin A-induced interferon-gamma production in Jurkat cells. SIGNIFICANCE: The present results suggest that DIF derivatives could be developed as novel immunosuppressive drugs.

Szabo, Z. B., et al. (2009). "Synthesis of three regioisomers of the pentasaccharide part of the Skp1 glycoprotein of Dictyostelium discoideum." Tetrahedron-Asymmetry 20(6-8): 808-820.
	Three regioisomers of the linear pentasaccharide part of the Skp1 glycoprotein, found in Dictyostelium discorideum, were prepared in the form of (2-trimethylsilyl)ethyl glycosides by means of 2+3 block syntheses using the disaccharide donor at the non-reducing end, and three different trisaccharide acceptors at the reducing end. Fucosylation of (2-trimethylsilyl)ethyl 3,4,6-tri-O-benzyl-beta-D-galactopyranosyl-(1 -> 3)-4,6-O-benzylidene-2-deoxy-2-NPhth-beta-D-glucopyranoside with different fucosyl donors carrying an O-(2-naphthyl)methyl ether as a temporary-protecting group at positions C2, C3 or C4 gave rise to the protected core trisaccharides. After selective removal of the (2-naphthyl)methyl group, the resulting acceptors were glycosylated with the alpha(1 -> 6) linked digalactosyl donor to yield the respective three regioisomeric pentasaccharides. Transformation of the phthalimido moiety into an N-acetyl group, followed by catalytic hydrogenation of the reducible-protecting groups furnished the free target pentasaccharides, which should be able to assist during the elucidation of the exact structure of the natural pentasaccharide. (C) 2009 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

Swarbrick, J. D., et al. (2009). "NMR assignment of prespore specific antigen--a cell surface adhesion glycoprotein from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biomol NMR Assign 3(1): 1-3.
	Presopore-specific antigen (PsA) is a cell surface glycoprotein of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoidum implicated in cell adhesion. The (15)N, (13)C and (1)H chemical shift assignments of PsA were determined from multidimensional, multinuclear NMR experiments. Resonance assignments have been made for both the N-terminal globular domain and its attached O-glycosylated PTVT linker motif.

Sultana, H., et al. (2009). "Microarray phenotyping places cyclase associated protein CAP at the crossroad of signaling pathways reorganizing the actin cytoskeleton in Dictyostelium." Exp Cell Res 315(2): 127-140.
	Large-scale gene expression analysis has been applied recently to uncover groups of genes that are co-regulated in particular processes. Here we undertake such an analysis on CAP, a protein that participates in the regulation of the actin cytoskeleton and in cAMP signaling in Dictyostelium. microarray analysis revealed that loss of CAP altered the expression of many cytoskeletal components. One of these, the Rho GDP-dissociation inhibitor RhoGDI1, was analyzed further. RhoGDI1 null cells expressed lower amounts of CAP, which failed to accumulate predominantly at the cell cortex. To further position CAP in the corresponding signal transduction pathways we studied CAP localization and cellular functioning in mutants that have defects in several signaling components. CAP showed correct localization and dynamics in all analyzed strains except in mutants with deficient cAMP dependent protein kinase A activity, where CAP preferentially accumulated in crown shaped structures. Ectopic expression of CAP improved the efficiency of phagocytosis in Gbeta-deficient cells and restored the pinocytosis, morphology and actin distribution defects in a PI3 kinase double mutant (pi3k1/2 null). Our results show that CAP acts at multiple crossroads and links signaling pathways to the actin cytoskeleton either by physical interaction with cytoskeletal components or through regulation of their gene expression.

Sriskanthadevan, S., et al. (2009). "The cell adhesion molecule DdCAD-1 is imported into contractile vacuoles by membrane invagination in a Ca2+- and conformation-dependent manner." J Biol Chem.
	The cadA gene in Dictyostelium encodes a Ca2+-dependent cell adhesion molecule DdCAD-1 which contains two beta-sandwich domains. DdCAD-1 is synthesized in the cytoplasm as a soluble protein and then transported by contractile vacuoles to the plasma membrane for surface presentation or secretion. DdCAD-1-GFP3 fusion protein was expressed in cadA-null cells for further investigation of this unconventional protein transport pathway. Both morphological and biochemical characterizations showed that DdCAD-1-GFP was imported into contractile vacuoles. Time-lapse microscopy of transfectants revealed the transient appearance of DdCAD-1-GFP-filled vesicular structures in the lumen of contractile vacuoles, suggesting that DdCAD-1 could be imported by invagination of contractile vacuole membrane. To assess the structural requirements in this transport process, the N-terminal and C-terminal domains of DdCAD-1 were expressed separately in cells as GFP-fusion proteins. Both fusion proteins failed to enter the contractile vacuole, suggesting that the integrity of DdCAD-1 is required for import. Such a requirement was also observed in in vitro reconstitution assays using His6-tagged fusion proteins and purified contractile vacuoles. Import of DdCAD-1 was compromised when two of its three Ca2+-binding sites were mutated, indicating a role for Ca2+ in the import process. Spectral analysis showed that mutations in the Ca2+-binding sites resulted in subtle conformational changes. Indeed, proteins with altered conformation failed to enter the contractile vacuole, suggesting that the import signal is somehow integrated in the three-dimensional structure of DdCAD-1.

Soppina, V., et al. (2009). "Tug-of-war between dissimilar teams of microtubule motors regulates transport and fission of endosomes." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A.
	Intracellular transport is interspersed with frequent reversals in direction due to the presence of opposing kinesin and dynein motors on organelles that are carried as cargo. The cause and the mechanism of reversals are unknown, but are a key to understanding how cargos are delivered in a regulated manner to specific cellular locations. Unlike established single-motor biophysical assays, this problem requires understanding of the cooperative behavior of multiple interacting motors. Here we present measurements inside live Dictyostelium cells, in a cell extract and with purified motors to quantify such an ensemble function of motors. We show through precise motion analysis that reversals during endosome motion are caused by a tug-of-war between kinesin and dynein. Further, we use a combination of optical trap-based force measurements and Monte Carlo simulations to make the surprising discovery that endosome transport uses many (approximately four to eight) weak and detachment-prone dyneins in a tug-of-war against a single strong and tenacious kinesin. We elucidate how this clever choice of dissimilar motors and motor teams achieves net transport together with endosome fission, both of which are important in controlling the balance of endocytic sorting. To the best of our knowledge, this is a unique demonstration that dynein and kinesin function differently at the molecular level inside cells and of how this difference is used in a specific cellular process, namely endosome biogenesis. Our work may provide a platform to understand intracellular transport of a variety of organelles in terms of measurable quantities.

Soppina, V., et al. (2009). "Simple non-fluorescent polarity labeling of microtubules for molecular motor assays." Biotechniques 46(7): 543-549.
	Transport of intracellular organelles along the microtubule cytoskeleton occurs in a bidirectional manner due to opposing activity of microtubule-associated motor proteins of the kinesin and dynein families. Regulation of this opposing activity and the resultant motion is believed to generate a polarized distribution of many organelles within the cell. The bidirectional motion can be reconstituted on in vitro assembled microtubules using organelles extracted from cells. This provides an opportunity to understand the regulation of intracellular transport through quantitative analysis of the motion of organelles in a controlled environment. Such analysis requires the use of polarity-labeled microtubules to resolve the plus and minus components of bidirectional motion. However, existing methods of in vitro microtubule polarity labeling are unsuitable for high-resolution recording of motion. Here we present a simple and reliable method that uses avidin-coated magnetic beads to prepare microtubules labeled at the minus end. The microtubule polarity can be identified without any need for fluorescence excitation. We demonstrate video-rate high-resolution imaging of single cellular organelles moving along plus and minus directions on labeled microtubules. Quantitative analysis of this motion indicates that these organelles are likely to be driven by multiple dynein motors in vivo.

Soll, D. R., et al. (2009). "How a cell crawls and the role of cortical myosin II." Euk Cell 8(9): 1381-1396.
	The movements of Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae translocating on a glass surface in the absence of chemoattractant have been reconstructed at 5-second intervals and motion analyzed by employing 3D-DIAS software. A morphometric analysis of pseudopods, the main cell body, and the uropod provides a comprehensive description of the basic motile behavior of a cell in four dimensions (4D), resulting in a list of 18 characteristics. A similar analysis of the myosin II phosphorylation mutant 3XASP reveals a role for the cortical localization of myosin II in the suppression of lateral pseudopods, formation of the uropod, cytoplasmic distribution of cytoplasm in the main cell body, and efficient motility. The results of the morphometric analysis suggest that pseudopods, the main cell body, and the uropod represent three motility compartments that are coordinated for efficient translocation. It provides a contextual framework for interpreting the effects of mutations, inhibitors, and chemoattractants on the basic motile behavior of D. discoideum. The generality of the characteristics of the basic motile behavior of D. discoideum must now be tested by similar 4D analyses of the motility of amoeboid cells of higher eukaryotic cells, in particular human polymorphonuclear leukocytes.

Skoge, M. (2009). Receptor-receptor interactions in gradient sensing. United States -- New Jersey, Princeton University: 149.
	The ability to detect and process chemical signals is one of the most ancient and widespread biological functions. Underlying this ability are membrane-bound receptors that specifically bind the signaling molecule and undergo conformational, dynamical and/or organizational changes to transduce the signal to intracellular biochemical networks. We study both theoretically and experimentally the roles of cooperative interactions and spatial organization of receptors in signal transduction, focusing on chemotaxis receptors, whose function is to infer chemical gradients. We study two very different model organisms, namely the bacterium, Escherichia coli , and the social ameoba, Dictyostelium discoideum (Dicty), which are both remarkably sensitive to chemical gradients over a wide range of background concentration. We extend a two-state model of E. coli chemotaxis receptors to include cooperative interactions among receptors and use recent experimental data to infer their topological organization. We study two proposed microscopic models of cooperativity among receptors: a large extended lattice of weakly-coupled receptors as described by the high-temperature Ising model, and an ensemble of small strongly-coupled clusters as described by the Monod-Wyman-Changeaux (MWC) model, and show that current experimental data supports the MWC model of receptor coupling. We also show that in any physical model, receptor-receptor interactions greatly increase the conformational switching time of a receptor cluster, which negatively affects its signal-processing capabilities. We explicitly calculate the signal-to-noise ratio for coupled two-state receptors with a constrained averaging time, taking into account both intrinsic and extrinsic sources of noise, and determine the optimal cluster size and coupling strength. We then experimentally probe the organization of chemotaxis receptors in Dicty. We discuss the evidence suggesting the receptors exhibit complex dynamics and use fluorescence resonance energy transfer to look for interactions among receptors in living cells. Our results do not show any evidence for direct physical interactions or clustering among the chemotaxis receptors in this system. Finally, we end with a diversion from the theme of receptor signal transduction, and study a model many-body system, hard spheres. We present the first study of disordered jammed packings of hard spheres in four, five and six dimensions using collision-driven molecular dynamics, and show that short-range ordering appreciably decreases with increasing dimension.

Shkilnyy, A., et al. (2009). "Unprecedented, low cytotoxicity of spongelike calcium phosphate/poly(ethylene imine) hydrogel composites." Macromol Biosci 9(2): 179-186.
	Covalently crosslinked PEI hydrogels are efficient templates for calcium phosphate mineralization in SBF. In contrast to the PEI hydrogels, non-crosslinked PEI does not lead to calcium phosphate nucleation and growth in SBF. The precipitate is a mixture of brushite and hydroxyapatite. The PEI/calcium phosphate composite material exhibits a sponge like morphology and a chemical composition that is interesting for implants. Cytotoxicity tests using Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae show that both the non-mineralized and mineralized hydrogels have a very low cytotoxicity. This suggests that next generation PEI hydrogels, where also the degradation products are non-toxic, could be interesting for biomedical applications.

Shimizu, K., et al. (2009). "Characterization of phosphodiesterase 1 in human malignant melanoma cell lines." Anticancer Res 29(4): 1119-1122.
	BACKGROUND: Differentiation-inducing factor 1 [DIF-1; 1-(3,5-dichloro-2,6-dihydroxy-4-methoxyphenyl) hexan-1-one] from Dictyostelium discoideum exhibits antiproliferative activity in mammalian cells. We have previously shown that phosphodiesterase 1 (PDE1) is a pharmacological target of DIF-1, but there are no reports of PDE1 in human malignant melanoma cells. Therefore, we characterized PDE1 in human malignant melanoma MAA cells. MATERIALS AND METHODS: PDE1 mRNA expression was investigated in MAA cells. The full open reading frames for human PDE1C1 and PDE1C3 were cloned. Cell growth was determined by MTS [3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-5-(3-carboxymethoxyphenyl)-2-(4-sulfophenyl)-2H-tet razolium, inner salt] assay. RESULTS: PDE1C mRNA expression was detected in MAA cells. The nucleotide sequence of PDE1C1 was identical to that of human PDE1C1, previously published. At nucleotide 2246 in PDE1C3, A was replaced by G, but this did not change the encoded amino acid. Cell growth was inhibited by the PDE1 inhibitor vinpocetin. CONCLUSION: PDE1C mRNA is expressed and may play an important role in human malignant melanoma MAA cells.

Shevchuk, O. and M. Steinert (2009). "Screening of virulence traits in Legionella pneumophila and analysis of the host susceptibility to infection by using the Dictyostelium host model system." Meth Mol Biol 470: 47-56.
	The social soil amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum has been established as a host model for several human pathogens including Legionella pneumophila. The complete genome sequence, the genetic tractability, and the phagocytic characteristics of Dictyostelium generate many opportunities for the study of host-pathogen interactions. Important applications of this haploid model organism are (i) the use of Dictyostelium cells as a screening system for bacterial virulence, (ii) the use of Dictyostelium mutant cells to identify genetic host determinants of susceptibility and resistance to infection, and (iii) experiments that allow the dissection of the complex cross-talk with infectious agents. Accordingly, this chapter describes a plaque assay to identify attenuated pathogens, an infection assay for the analysis of host cell mutants and pathogens, and a screening method for the isolation of Legionella mutants that are defective in the reprogramming of the phagolysosomal maturation of the host.

Shevchuk, O., et al. (2009). "Proteomic analysis of Legionella-containing phagosomes isolated from Dictyostelium." Int J Med Microbiol 299(7): 489-508.
	Legionella pneumophila, the agent of Legionnaires' disease, replicates intracellularly within specialized phagosomes of human macrophages and amoebae. In this study, we have developed a protocol for the isolation of Legionella-containing phagosomes from Dictyostelium discoideum. Cell fractionation, two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and MALDI-TOF MS combined with genomic data identified 157 phagosome host proteins. In addition to proteins with an evident role in phagosome maturation, we identified proteins for which a function remains to be elucidated. Possible interactions of coronin with cytosolic NADPH oxidase components and protein kinase C inhibitors which together may lead to an inhibition of phagosomal superoxide generation are discussed. Comparative proteomics of phagosomes containing highly virulent L. pneumophila Corby versus less virulent L. hackeliae revealed distinctive protein expression patterns, e.g., an abundance of RhoGDI in L. hackeliae degrading phagosomes versus little RhoGDI in L. pneumophila Corby replicative phagosomes. We present a kinetic dissection of phagosome maturation including the complex alterations of the phagosome protein composition. A reference flow chart suggests so far unrecognized consequences of infection for host cell physiology, actin degradation on phagosomes, and a putative cysteine proteinase inhibitor interference with lysosomal enzyme sorting and activation processes.

Shemarova, I. V. (2009). "cAMP-dependent signal pathways in unicellular eukaryotes." Crit Rev Microbiol 35(1): 23-42.
	The review summarizes current data about mechanisms of signal transduction with participation of cAMP (cyclic adenosine monophosphate) and elements of the complex cAMP-protein kinase A (PKA) signal pathway in unicellular eukaryotes. Conceptions of evolutionary origin of eukaryotic signal transduction systems are developed.

Shanina, N. A., et al. (2009). "A high molecular weight polypeptide cross-reacting with the antibodies to the dynein heavy chain localizes to the subset of Golgi complex in higher plant cells." Cell Biol Int 33(3): 290-300.
	Antibodies were produced against fragments of the microtubule-binding domain and the motor domain of the dynein heavy chain from Dictyostelium discoideum to probe whole cell extracts of root meristem cells of wheat Triticum aestivum. In plant extracts, these antibodies cross-reacted with a polypeptide of high molecular weight (>500kDa). The antibodies bound to protein A-Sepharose precipitated high molecular weight polypeptide from cell extracts. Immunofluorescence showed that the antibodies identified various aggregates inside cells, localized at the perinuclear area during interphase to early prophase, at the spindle periphery and polar area during mitosis, and in the interzonal region during phragmoplast development. Some aggregates were also co-labeled by markers for the Golgi apparatus. Thus, we found in higher plant cells a high molecular weight antigen cross-reacting with the antibodies to motor and microtubule-binding domains of dynein heavy chains. This antigen is associated with aggregates distributed in the cytoplasm in cell cycle-dependent manner. A subset of these aggregates belongs to the Golgi complex.

Schulz, I., et al. (2009). Cell cycle-dependent localization of novel centrosomal and centromeric proteins in Dictyostelium. Eur J Cell Biol, Konstanz.
	In Dictyostelium the centrosome consists of a layered core
structure surrounded by a so-called corona, which harbors
microtubule nucleation complexes. We used GFP fusion
proteins to localize novel centrosomal candidate proteins
previously identified in a proteomic screen in whole cells
and at microtubule-free, isolated centrosomes. We were
able to verify eight new proteins including a putative
orthologue of Cep192 as genuine centrosomal
components. Four components, DdCP39, DdCP55,
DdCP75 and DdCP91 could be clearly assigned to the
almost uncharacterized centrosomal core structure. By
contrast, DdCP148 and DdCep192 localized to a zone
between that of corona marker and core proteins.
Overexpression of DdCP39, DdCP75, DdCP91 and
DdCep192 resulted in centrosome amplification
suggesting a function of these proteins in centrosome
biogenesis. DdCP39, DdCP75, DdCP91 and DdCP148
exhibited a cell cycle-dependent localization. These
proteins disappeared from the spindle poles during
mitosis. Two further proteins, an orthologue of the spindle
checkpoint component Mad1 and the novel DdCenp68,
were observed at the centromeres, which are clustered
and tightly linked to the centrosome during the entire cell
cycle. Live cell imaging revealed that GFP-Mad1 appears
at centromeres in late G2 and starts to disappear in
metaphase, while GFP-DdCenp68 is a permanent
centromeric resident.

Schulz, I., et al. (2009). "Identification and cell cycle-dependent localization of nine novel, genuine centrosomal components in Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Motil Cytoskeleton 66(11): 915-928.
	The centrosome is the main microtubule-organizing center and constitutes the largest protein complex in a eukaryotic cell. The Dictyostelium centrosome is an established model for acentriolar centrosomes and it consists of a layered core structure surrounded by a so-called corona, which harbors microtubule nucleation complexes. We have identified 34 new centrosomal candidate proteins through mass spectrometrical analysis of the proteome of isolated Dictyostelium centrosomes. Here we present a characterization of 12 centrosomal candidate proteins all featuring coiled coil regions and low expression levels, which are the most common attributes of centrosomal proteins. We used GFP fusion proteins to localize the candidate proteins in whole cells and on microtubule-free, isolated centrosomes. Thus we were able to identify nine new genuine centrosomal proteins including a putative orthologue of Cep192, an interaction partner of polo-like kinase 4 in human centriole biogenesis. In this respect, centrosomal localization of the only polo-like kinase in Dictyostelium, Plk, is also shown in this work. Using confocal deconvolution microscopy, four components, CP39, CP55, CP75, and CP91 could be clearly assigned to the so far almost uncharacterized centrosomal core structure, while CP148 and Cep192 localized to a zone between that of corona marker and core proteins. Finally, CP103 and CP248 were constituents of the corona. In contrast, NE81 was localized at the nuclear envelope and three others, an orthologue of the spindle checkpoint component Mad1, the novel Cenp68, and the centrosomal CP248 were observed at the centromeres, which are clustered and linked to the centrosome throughout the entire cell cycle. Cell Motil. Cytoskeleton 2009. (c) 2009 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

Schulz, I., et al. (2009). "Dictyostelium Sun1 is a dynamic membrane protein of both nuclear membranes and required for centrosomal association with clustered centromeres." Eur J Cell Biol 88(11): 621-638.
	Centrosomal attachment to nuclei is crucial for proper mitosis and nuclear positioning in various organisms, and generally involves Sun-family proteins located at the inner nuclear envelope. There is still no common scheme for the outer nuclear membrane proteins interacting with Sun1 in centrosome/nucleus attachment. Here we propose a model in which Sun1 mediates a physical link between centrosomes and clustered centromeres through both nuclear membranes in Dictyostelium. For the first time we provide a detailed microscopic analysis of the centrosomal and nuclear envelope localization of endogenous Dictyostelium Sun1 during interphase and mitosis. By immunogold electron microscopy we show that Sun1 is a resident of both nuclear membranes. Disruption of Sun1 function by overexpression of full-length GFP-Sun1 or a GFP-Sun-domain deletion construct revealed not only the established function in centrosome/nucleus attachment and maintenance of ploidy, but also a requirement of Sun1 for the association of the centromere cluster with the centrosome. Live-cell imaging visualized the occurrence of mitotic defects, and demonstrated the requirement of microtubules for dynamic distance changes between centrosomes and nuclei. FRAP analysis revealed at least two populations of Sun1, with an immobile fraction associated with the centrosome, and a mobile fraction in the nuclear envelope.

Schroth-Diez, B., et al. (2009). "Propagating waves separate two states of actin organization in living cells." HFSP J 3(6): 412-427.
	Propagating actin waves are dynamic supramolecular structures formed by the self-assembly of proteins within living cells. They are built from actin filaments together with single-headed myosin, the Arp23 complex, and coronin in a defined three-dimensional order. The function of these waves in structuring the cell cortex is studied on the substrate-attached surface of Dictyostelium cells by the use of total internal reflection fluorescence (TIRF) microscopy. Actin waves separate two areas of the cell cortex from each other, which are distinguished by the arrangement of actin filaments. The Arp23 complex dominates in the area enclosed by a wave, where it has the capacity of building dendritic structures, while the proteins prevailing in the external area, cortexillin I and myosin-II, bundle actin filaments and arrange them in antiparallel direction. Wave propagation is accompanied by transitions in the state of actin with a preferential period of 5 min. Wave generation is preceded by local fluctuations in actin assembly, some of the nuclei of polymerized actin emanating from clathrin-coated structures, others emerging independently. The dynamics of phase transitions has been analyzed to provide a basis for modeling the nonlinear interactions that produce spatio-temporal patterns in the actin system of living cells.

Schmauch, C., et al. (2009). "Targeting the actin-binding protein VASP to late endosomes induces the formation of giant actin aggregates." Eur J Cell Biol 88(7): 385-396.
	In vitro, the vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein (VASP) acts as a regulator of actin filament assembly in many ways. In cells it localizes to sites where actin is rapidly polymerized such as filopodia, lamellipodia, and focal adhesions. We have mistargeted VASP to the surface of the late endosome in Dictyostelium cells thereby inducing the formation of a dense actin aggregate which sequesters various actin-binding proteins and endosomal components. Depletion of these proteins from the cytoplasm leads to phenotypes mimicking the corresponding knockout cells. Some properties of the actin aggregate are reminiscent of Hirano bodies that are often observed in nerve tissue from patients suffering from neurodegenerative diseases, opening the possibility that protein sequestration contributes to neuronal malfunction.

Schiller, B., et al. (2009). "Development of Dictyostelium discoideum is associated with alteration of fucosylated N-glycan structures." Biochem J 423(1): 41-52.
	The social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum has become established as a simple model for the examination of cell-cell interactions, and early studies suggested that shifts in glycosylation profiles take place during its life cycle. In the present study, we have applied HPLC and mass spectrometric methods to show that the major N-glycans in axenic cultures of the AX3 strain are oligomannosidic forms, most of which carry core fucose and/or intersecting and bisecting N-acetylglucosamine residues, including the major structure with the composition Man8GlcNAc4Fuc1. The postulated alpha1,3-linkage of the core fucose correlates with the cross-reactivity of Dictyostelium glycoproteins with a horseradish peroxidase antiserum; a corresponding core alpha1,3-fucosyltransferase activity capable of modifying oligomannosidic N-glycans was detected in axenic Dictyostelium extracts. The presence of fucose on the N-glycans and the reactivity to the antiserum, but not the fucosyltransferase activity, are abolished in the fucose-deficient HL250 strain. In later stages of development, N-glycans at the mound and culmination stages show a reduction in both the size and the degree of modification by intersecting/bisecting residues compared with mid-exponential phase cultures, consistent with the hypothesis that glycosidase and glycosyltransferase expression levels are altered during the slime mould life cycle.

Sawarkar, R., et al. (2009). "Histone deacetylases regulate multicellular development in the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum." J Mol Biol 391(5): 833-848.
	Epigenetic modifications of histones regulate gene expression and lead to the establishment and maintenance of cellular phenotypes during development. Histone acetylation depends on a balance between the activities of histone acetyltransferases and histone deacetylases (HDACs) and influences transcriptional regulation. In this study, we analyse the roles of HDACs during growth and development of one of the cellular slime moulds, the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum. The inhibition of HDAC activity by trichostatin A results in histone hyperacetylation and a delay in cell aggregation and differentiation. Cyclic AMP oscillations are normal in starved amoebae treated with trichostatin A but the expression of a subset of cAMP-regulated genes is delayed. Bioinformatic analysis indicates that there are four genes encoding putative HDACs in D. discoideum. Using biochemical, genetic and developmental approaches, we demonstrate that one of these four genes, hdaB, is dispensable for growth and development under laboratory conditions. A knockout of the hdaB gene results in a social context-dependent phenotype: hdaB(-) cells develop normally but sporulate less efficiently than the wild type in chimeras. We infer that HDAC activity is important for regulating the timing of gene expression during the development of D. discoideum and for defining aspects of the phenotype that mediate social behaviour in genetically heterogeneous groups.

Sato, M. J., et al. (2009). "Switching direction in electric-signal-induced cell migration by cyclic guanosine monophosphate and phosphatidylinositol signaling." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 106(16): 6667-6672.
	Switching between attractive and repulsive migration in cell movement in response to extracellular guidance cues has been found in various cell types and is an important cellular function for translocation during cellular and developmental processes. Here we show that the preferential direction of migration during electrotaxis in Dictyostelium cells can be reversed by genetically modulating both guanylyl cyclases (GCases) and the cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP)-binding protein C (GbpC) in combination with the inhibition of phosphatidylinositol-3-OH kinases (PI3Ks). The PI3K-dependent pathway is involved in cathode-directed migration under a direct-current electric field. The catalytic domains of soluble GCase (sGC) and GbpC also mediate cathode-directed signaling via cGMP, whereas the N-terminal domain of sGC mediates anode-directed signaling in conjunction with both the inhibition of PI3Ks and cGMP production. These observations provide an identification of the genes required for directional switching in electrotaxis and suggest that a parallel processing of electric signals, in which multiple-signaling pathways act to bias cell movement toward the cathode or anode, is used to determine the direction of migration.

Sasaki, A. T. and R. A. Firtel (2009). "Spatiotemporal Regulation of Ras-GTPases During Chemotaxis." Meth Mol Biol 571: 333-348.
	Many eukaryotic cells can elicit intracellular signaling relays to produce pseudopodia and move up to the chemoattractant gradient (chemotaxis) or move randomly in the absence of extracellular stimuli and nutrients (random movement). A precise spatiotemporal regulation of Ras-GTPases, such as Ras and Rap, is crucial to induce pseudopodia formation and cellular adhesion during the chemotaxis and random movement. Here, we describe biochemical and real-time imaging methods for using Dictyostelium to understand the signaling events important for chemotaxis and random cell movement. The chapter includes (1) a biochemical method to assess Ras and Rap1 activation in response to chemoattractant, (2) an imaging method to detect endogenous Ras and Rap1 activation in moving cells, and (3) a simultaneous imaging method to decipher the precise order and localization of these signaling events. With a combination of powerful Dictyostelium genetics, these methods will facilitate to elucidate a dynamic activation of Ras proteins and their inter relay with other signaling molecules during chemotaxis and random movement.

Salah, I. B., et al. (2009). "Free-living amoebae, a training field for macrophage resistance of mycobacteria." Clin Microbiol Infect 15(10): 894-905.
	Mycobacterium species evolved from an environmental recent common ancestor by reductive evolution and lateral gene transfer. Strategies selected through evolution and developed by mycobacteria resulted in resistance to predation by environmental unicellular protists, including free-living amoebae. Indeed, mycobacteria are isolated from the same soil and water environments as are amoebae, and experimental models using Acanthamoeba spp. and Dictyostelium discoideum were exploited to analyse the mechanisms for intracellular survival. Most of these mechanisms have been further reproduced in macrophages for mycobacteria regarded as opportunistic and obligate pathogens. Amoebal cysts may protect intracellular mycobacteria against adverse conditions and may act as a vector for mycobacteria. The latter hypothesis warrants further environmental and clinical studies to better assess the role of free-living amoebae in the epidemiology of infections caused by mycobacteria.

Saedler, R., et al. (2009). "The cell morphogenesis gene SPIRRIG in Arabidopsis encodes a WD/BEACH domain protein." Plant J. 59(4): 612-621.
	WD40/BEACH domain proteins have been implicated in membrane trafficking and membrane composition events in Dictyostelium and Drosophila. In this paper, we show that the Arabidopsis SPIRRIG (SPI) gene encodes a WD40/BEACH domain protein. The cellular analysis revealed fragmented vacuoles in root hairs similar to those found in the corresponding Dictyostelium mutants, suggesting a related cellular function. The phenotypic analysis revealed that spi mutants share all phenotypic aspects of mutants in the actin polymerization-regulating ARP2/3 pathway, including distorted trichomes, less lobing of epidermal pavement cells, disconnected epidermal cells on various organs, and shorter root hairs. This complete phenotypic overlap suggests that this WD40/BEACH domain protein and the actin-regulating ARP2/3 pathway are involved in similar growth processes. Class Descriptors: NAL: QK710.P68

Rot, G., et al. (2009). "dictyExpress: a Dictyostelium discoideum gene expression database with an explorative data analysis web-based interface." BMC Bioinformatics 10: 265.
	BACKGROUND: Bioinformatics often leverages on recent advancements in computer science to support biologists in their scientific discovery process. Such efforts include the development of easy-to-use web interfaces to biomedical databases. Recent advancements in interactive web technologies require us to rethink the standard submit-and-wait paradigm, and craft bioinformatics web applications that share analytical and interactive power with their desktop relatives, while retaining simplicity and availability. RESULTS: We have developed dictyExpress, a web application that features a graphical, highly interactive explorative interface to our database that consists of more than 1000 Dictyostelium discoideum gene expression experiments. In dictyExpress, the user can select experiments and genes, perform gene clustering, view gene expression profiles across time, view gene co-expression networks, perform analyses of Gene Ontology term enrichment, and simultaneously display expression profiles for a selected gene in various experiments. Most importantly, these tasks are achieved through web applications whose components are seamlessly interlinked and immediately respond to events triggered by the user, thus providing a powerful explorative data analysis environment. CONCLUSION: dictyExpress is a precursor for a new generation of web-based bioinformatics applications with simple but powerful interactive interfaces that resemble that of the modern desktop. While dictyExpress serves mainly the Dictyostelium research community, it is relatively easy to adapt it to other datasets. We propose that the design ideas behind dictyExpress will influence the development of similar applications for other model organisms.

Romeralo, M., et al. (2009). "A new species of cellular slime mold from southern Portugal based on morphology, ITS and SSU sequences." Mycologia 101(2): 269-274.
	Sampling soils to look for dictyostelids in southern Portugal we found an isolate that has a morphology that differed from any previously described species of the group. We sequenced the internally transcribed spacer (ITS) and small subunit (SSU) genes of the nuclear ribosomal RNA and found that both sequences are distinct from all previously described sequences. Phylogenetic analyses place the new species in dictyostelid Group 3 (Rhizostelids) together with D. potamoides, with which it shares 65.8% identity for ITS and 96.6% for SSU. In this paper we describe a new species of cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium ibericum, based on morphological and molecular characters. It is a small species with polar granules in its spores.

Roberts, A. J., et al. (2009). "AAA+ Ring and linker swing mechanism in the dynein motor." Cell 136(3): 485-495.
	Dynein ATPases power diverse microtubule-based motilities. Each dynein motor domain comprises a ring-like head containing six AAA+ modules and N- and C-terminal regions, together with a stalk that binds microtubules. How these subdomains are arranged and generate force remains poorly understood. Here, using electron microscopy and image processing of tagged and truncated Dictyostelium cytoplasmic dynein constructs, we show that the heart of the motor is a hexameric ring of AAA+ modules, with the stalk emerging opposite the primary ATPase site (AAA1). The C-terminal region is not an integral part of the ring but spans between AAA6 and near the stalk base. The N-terminal region includes a lever-like linker whose N terminus swings by approximately 17 nm during the ATPase cycle between AAA2 and the stalk base. Together with evidence of stalk tilting, which may communicate changes in microtubule binding affinity, these findings suggest a model for dynein's structure and mechanism.

Rieu, J. P., et al. (2009). "Migration of Dictyostelium slugs: Anterior-like cells may provide the motive force for the prespore zone." Cell Motil Cytoskeleton.
	The collective motion of cells in a biological tissue originates from their individual responses to chemical and mechanical signals. The Dictyostelium slug moves as a collective of up to 100,000 cells with prestalk cells in the anterior 10-30% and prespore cells, intermingled with anterior-like cells (AL cells), in the posterior. We used traction force microscopy to measure the forces exerted by migrating slugs. Wild-type slugs exert frictional forces on their substratum in the direction of motion in their anterior, balanced by motive forces dispersed down their length. StlB- mutants lack the signal molecule DIF-1 and hence a subpopulation of AL cells. They produce little if any motive force in their rear and immediately break up. This argues that AL cells, but not prespore cells, are the motive cells in the posterior zone. Slugs also exert large outward radial forces, which we have analyzed during "looping" movement. Each time the anterior touches down after a loop, the outward forces rapidly develop, approximately normal to the almost stationary contact lines. We postulate that these forces result from the immediate binding of the sheath to the substratum and the subsequent application of outward "pressure," which might be developed in several different ways. Cell Motil. Cytoskeleton 2009. (c) 2009 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

Reyes, J., et al. (2009). "Formation of Hirano Bodies After Inducible Expression of a Modified Form of an Actin-Crosslinking Protein." Euk Cell 8(6): 852-857.
	Hirano bodies are cytoplasmic inclusions composed mainly of actin and actin associated proteins. The formation of Hirano bodies has been reported in various neurodegenerative disorders including Alzheimer's Disease and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Although the underlying molecular mechanisms that lead to the formation of these inclusions in the brain is not known, expression of the C-terminal fragment (CT, aa 124-295) from the endogenous 34 kDa actin binding protein of Dictyostelium discoideum leads to the formation of actin inclusions in vivo. In the current study, we report the development of an inducible expression system to study the early phases of Hirano Body formation using an inducible promoter system (rnrB). By fusing the CT fragment to a fluorescent probe (CT-GFP), we monitored protein expression and localization by fluorescence microscopy, flow cytometry and western blot analysis. We observed an increase in the number and size of inclusions formed following induction of the CT-GFP vector system. Time-lapse microscopy studies revealed that the CT-GFP foci associated with the cell cortex and fuse to form a single large aggregate. Transmission electron microscopy (TEM) further demonstrates that these inclusions have a highly ordered ultrastructure, a pathological hallmark of Hirano Bodies observed in post-mortem brain samples from patients with various neurodegenerative disorders. Collectively, this system provides a method to visualize and characterize the events that surround early actin inclusion formation in a eukaryotic model.

Rey, S. M., et al. (2009). "Three- and four-dimensional visualization of cell migration using optical coherence tomography." J Biophotonics 2(6-7): 370-379.
	Conventionally, cell chemotaxis is studied on two-dimensional (2D) transparent surfaces, due to limitations in optical and image data-collection techniques. However, surfaces that more closely mimic the natural environment of cells are often opaque. Optical coherence tomography (OCT) is a noninvasive label-free imaging technique, which offers the potential to visualize moving cells on opaque surfaces and in three dimensions (3D). Here, we demonstrate that OCT is an effective means of time-lapse videomicroscopy of Dictyostelium cells undergoing 3D (2D+time) cell migration on nitrocellulose substrates and 4D (3D+time) chemotaxis within low-density agarose gels. The generated image sequences are compatible with current computer-based image-analysis software for quantification of cell motility. This demonstrates the utility of OCT for cell tracking and analysis of cell chemotaxis in complex environments. ((c) 2009 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim).

Ren, Y., et al. (2009). "Mechanosensing through Cooperative Interactions between Myosin II and the Actin Crosslinker Cortexillin I." Curr Biol 19(17): 1421-1428.
	BACKGROUND: Mechanosensing governs many processes from molecular to organismal levels, including during cytokinesis where it ensures successful and symmetrical cell division. Although many proteins are now known to be force sensitive, myosin motors with their ATPase activity and force-sensitive mechanical steps are well poised to facilitate cellular mechanosensing. For a myosin motor to experience tension, the actin filament must also be anchored. RESULTS: Here, we find a cooperative relationship between myosin II and the actin crosslinker cortexillin I where both proteins are essential for cellular mechanosensory responses. Although many functions of cortexillin I and myosin II are dispensable for cytokinesis, all are required for full mechanosensing. Our analysis demonstrates that this mechanosensor has three critical elements: the myosin motor where the lever arm acts as a force amplifier, a force-sensitive bipolar thick-filament assembly, and a long-lived actin crosslinker, which anchors the actin filament so that the motor may experience tension. We also demonstrate that a Rac small GTPase inhibits this mechanosensory module during interphase, allowing the module to be primarily active during cytokinesis. CONCLUSIONS: Overall, myosin II and cortexillin I define a cellular-scale mechanosensor that controls cell shape during cytokinesis. This system is exquisitely tuned through the enzymatic properties of the myosin motor, its lever arm length, and bipolar thick-filament assembly dynamics. The system also requires cortexillin I to stably anchor the actin filament so that the myosin motor can experience tension. Through this cross-talk, myosin II and cortexillin I define a cellular-scale mechanosensor that monitors and corrects shape defects, ensuring symmetrical cell division.

Rappel, W. J. and W. F. Loomis (2009). "Eukaryotic chemotaxis." WIREs Systems Biology and Medicine 1(1): 141-149.
	During eukaryotic chemotaxis, external chemical gradients guide the crawling motion of cells. This process plays an important role in a large variety of biological systems and has wide ranging medical implications. New experimental techniques including confocal microscopy and microfluidics have advanced our understanding of chemotaxis while numerical modeling efforts are beginning to offer critical insights. In this short review, we survey the current experimental status of the field by dividing chemotaxis into three distinct ‘modules’: directional sensing, polarity and motility. For each module, we attempt to point out potential new directions of research and discuss how modeling studies interact with experimental investigations.

Rao, N. N. and M. R. Gomez-Garcia (2009). "Inorganic polyphosphate: essential for growth and survival." Annu Rev Biochem 78: 605-647.
	Inorganic polyphosphate (Poly P) is a polymer of tens to hundreds of phosphate residues linked by "high-energy" phosphoanhydride bonds as in ATP. Found in abundance in all cells in nature, it is unique in its likely role in the origin and survival of species. Here, we present extensive evidence that the remarkable properties of Poly P as a polyanion have made it suited for a crucial role in the emergence of cells on earth. Beyond that, Poly P has proved in a variety of ways to be essential for growth of cells, their responses to stresses and stringencies, and the virulence of pathogens. In this review, we pay particular attention to the enzyme, polyphosphate kinase 1 (Poly P kinase 1 or PPK1), responsible for Poly P synthesis and highly conserved in a many bacterial species, including 20 or more of the major pathogens. Mutants lacking PPK1 are defective in motility, quorum sensing, biofilm formation, and virulence. Structural studies are cited that reveal the conserved ATP-binding site of PPK1 at atomic resolution and reveal that the site can be blocked with minute concentrations of designed inhibitors. Another widely conserved enzyme is PPK2 with distinctive kinetic properties and also implicated in the virulence of some pathogens. Thus, these enzymes, absent in yeast and animals, are novel attractive targets for treatment of many microbial diseases. Still another enzyme featured in this review is one discovered in Dictyostelium discoideum that becomes an actin-like fiber concurrent with the synthesis, step by step, of a Poly P chain made from ATP. The Poly P-actin fiber complex, localized in the cell, lengthens and recedes in response to metabolic signals. Homologs of DdPPK2 are found in pathogenic protozoa and in the alga, Chlamydomonas. Beyond the immediate relevance of Poly P as a target for anti-infective drugs, a large variety of cellular operations that rely on Poly P will be considered. Expected final online publication date for the Annual Review of Biochemistry Volume 78 is June 02, 2009. Please see http://www.annualreviews.org/catalog/pubdates.aspx for revised estimates.

Raghu, P., et al. (2009). "Emerging findings from studies of phospholipase D in model organisms (and a short update on phosphatidic acid effectors)." Biochim Biophys Acta 1791(9): 889-897.
	Phospholipase D (PLD) catalyses the hydrolysis of phosphatidylcholine to generate phosphatidic acid and choline. Historically, much PLD work has been conducted in mammalian settings although genes encoding enzymes of this family have been identified in all eukaryotic organisms. Recently, important insights on PLD function are emerging from work in yeast, but much less is known about PLD in other organisms. In this review we will summarize what is known about phospholipase D in several model organisms, including C. elegans, D. discoideum, D. rerio and D. melanogaster. In the cases where knockouts are available (C. elegans, Dictyostelium and Drosophila) the PLD gene(s) appear not to be essential, but several studies are beginning to identify pathways where this activity has a role. Given that the proteins are very similar, we expect that future studies in model organisms will complement and extend ongoing work in mammalian settings. At the end of this review we will also provide a short update on phosphatidic acid targets, a topic last reviewed in 2006.

Pujic, Z., et al. (2009). "Assays for Eukaryotic Cell Chemotaxis." Combinatorial Chemistry & High Throughput Screening 12(6): 580-588.
	Chemotaxis is essential for many biological processes. Much of our understanding of the mechanisms underlying chemotaxis is based on a variety of in vitro assays. We review these assays, dividing them into groups depending on the process used to generate the gradient. We describe how each method works, its strengths and limitations, and provide some information about the kinds of cells that have been studied with each assay.

Price, C. T., et al. (2009). "Molecular mimicry by an F-box effector of Legionella pneumophila hijacks a conserved polyubiquitination machinery within macrophages and protozoa." PLoS Pathog 5(12): e1000704.
	The ability of Legionella pneumophila to proliferate within various protozoa in the aquatic environment and in macrophages indicates a remarkable evolution and microbial exploitation of evolutionarily conserved eukaryotic processes. Ankyrin B (AnkB) of L. pneumophila is a non-canonical F-box-containing protein, and is the only known Dot/Icm-translocated effector of L. pneumophila essential for intra-vacuolar proliferation within both macrophages and protozoan hosts. We show that the F-box domain of AnkB and the (9)L(10)P conserved residues are essential for intracellular bacterial proliferation and for rapid acquisition of polyubiquitinated proteins by the Legionella-containing vacuole (LCV) within macrophages, Dictyostelium discoideum, and Acanthamoeba. Interestingly, translocation of AnkB and recruitment of polyubiquitinated proteins in macrophages and Acanthamoeba is rapidly triggered by extracellular bacteria within 5 min of bacterial attachment. Ectopically expressed AnkB within mammalian cells is localized to the periphery of the cell where it co-localizes with host SKP1 and recruits polyubiquitinated proteins, which results in restoration of intracellular growth to the ankB mutant similar to the parental strain. While an ectopically expressed AnkB-(9)L(10)P/AA variant is localized to the cell periphery, it does not recruit polyubiquitinated proteins and fails to trans-rescue the ankB mutant intracellular growth defect. Direct in vivo interaction of AnkB but not the AnkB-(9)L(10)P/AA variant with the host SKP1 is demonstrated. Importantly, RNAi-mediated silencing of expression of SKP1 renders the cells non-permissive for intracellular proliferation of L. pneumophila. The role of AnkB in exploitation of the polyubiquitination machinery is essential for intrapulmonary bacterial proliferation in the mouse model of Legionnaires' disease. Therefore, AnkB exhibits a novel molecular and functional mimicry of eukaryotic F-box proteins that exploits conserved polyubiquitination machinery for intracellular proliferation within evolutionarily distant hosts.

Pramanik, M. K., et al. (2009). "PTEN is a mechanosensing signal transducer for myosin II localization in Dictyostelium cells." Genes to Cells 14(7): 821-834.
	To investigate the role of PTEN in regulation of cortical motile activity, especially in myosin II localization, eGFP-PTEN and mRFP-myosin II were simultaneously expressed in Dictyostelium cells. PTEN and myosin II co-localized at the posterior of migrating cells and furrow region of dividing cells. In suspension culture, PTEN knockout (pten-) cells became multinucleated, and myosin II significantly decreased in amount at the furrow. During pseudopod retraction and cell aspiration by microcapillary, PTEN accumulated at the tips of pseudopods and aspirated lobes prior to the accumulation of myosin II. In pten- cells, only a small amount of myosin II accumulated at the retracting pseudopods and aspirated cell lobes. PTEN accumulated at the retracting pseudopods and aspirated lobes even in myosin II null cells and latrunculin B-treated cells though in reduced amounts, indicating that PTEN accumulates partially depending on myosin II and cortical actin. Accumulation of PTEN prior to myosin II suggests that PTEN is an upstream component in signaling pathway to localize myosin II, possibly with mechanosensing signaling loop where actomyosin-driven contraction further augments accumulation of PTEN and myosin II by a positive feedback mechanism. Class Descriptors: NAL: QH441.5

Powell, A. (2009). Disruption of three PP2A regulatory subunits in Dictyostelium discoideum and phenotypic analysis of null strains. United States -- California, University of California, San Diego: 65.
	The Dictyostelium discoideum genome has been found to encode three PP2A regulatory subunits (B, B', and B"). In order to study their function, the genes were individually disrupted and the resulting null strains' phenotypes were analyzed. Our results suggested that the PP2A-B' regulatory subunit was essential for proper multicellular development. Additionally, when exposed to a gradient of cAMP, both the PP2A-B and -B' regulatory subunit null strains showed some significant chemotaxis defects. Null strains expressing GFP and the previously knocked out subunits showed that the PP2A-B and -B' subunits are globally distributed throughout chemotaxing cells. Finally, analysis of cAMP-induced F-actin polymerization and myosin assembly revealed that there were noticeable deficits in all of the analyzed null strains' actin profiles (especially that of PP2A-B and -B') when compared to the wild type. Also, there were significant increases in myosin filament formation in PP2A-B". The results suggest that the PP2A-B and -B' regulatory subunits positively regulate F-actin polymerization, although probably through different effector proteins. On the other hand, PP2A-B" appears to negatively regulate myosin filament formation. Therefore, the specificity of PP2A in de-phosphorylating its effector proteins is different depending on the regulatory subunit within the holoenzyme. Also, these differing specificities appear to cause the phosphatase to have unique protein-protein interactions with other effector proteins involved in F-actin polymerization.

Postma, M. and P. J. van Haastert (2009). "Mathematics of experimentally generated chemoattractant gradients." Meth Mol Biol 571: 473-488.
	Many eukaryotic cells move in the direction of a chemical gradient. Several assays have been developed to measure this chemotactic response, but no complete mathematical models of the spatial and temporal gradients are available to describe the fundamental principles of chemotaxis. Here we provide analytical solutions for the gradients formed by release of chemoattractant from a point source by passive diffusion or forced flow (micropipettes) and gradients formed by laminar diffusion in a Zigmond chamber. The results show that gradients delivered with a micropipette are formed nearly instantaneous, are very steep close to the pipette, and have a steepness that is strongly dependent on the distance from the pipette. In contrast, gradients in a Zigmond chamber are formed more slowly, are nearly independent of the distance from the source, and resemble the temporal and spatial properties of the natural cAMP wave that Dictyostelium cells experience during cell aggregation.

Pollitt, A. Y. and R. H. Insall (2009). "Loss of Dictyostelium HSPC300 causes a scar-like phenotype and loss of SCAR protein." BMC Cell Biol 10: 13.
	BACKGROUND: SCAR/WAVE proteins couple signalling to actin polymerization, and are thus fundamental to the formation of pseudopods and lamellipods. They are controlled as part of a five-membered complex that includes the tiny HSPC300 protein. It is not known why SCAR/WAVE is found in such a large assembly, but in Dictyostelium the four larger subunits have different, clearly delineated functions. RESULTS: We have generated Dictyostelium mutants in which the HSPC300 gene is disrupted. As has been seen in other regulatory complex mutants, SCAR is lost in these cells, apparently by a post-translational mechanism, though PIR121 levels do not change. HSPC300 knockouts resemble scar mutants in slow migration, roundness, and lack of large pseudopods. However hspc300-colonies on bacteria are larger and more similar to wild type, suggesting that some SCAR function can survive without HSPC300. We find no evidence for functions of HSPC300 outside the SCAR complex. CONCLUSION: HSPC300 is essential for most SCAR complex functions. The phenotype of HSPC300 knockouts is most similar to mutants in scar, not the other members of the SCAR complex, suggesting that HSPC300 acts most directly on SCAR itself.

Pennisi, E. (2009). "Origins. On the origin of cooperation." Science 325(5945): 1196-1199.
	
Pawolleck, N. and R. S. Williams (2009). "Quantifying in vivo phosphoinositide turnover in chemotactically competent Dictyostelium cells." Meth Mol Biol 571: 283-290.
	Phosphoinositide (PI) signalling is one of multiple signalling cascades involved in chemotaxis in Dictyostelium discoideum. PI signalling comprises a complex interaction of multiple enzymes, each with multiple phospholipid substrates and thus products, often relying upon several enzymes in series to produce a signal. PI turnover, controlled by both kinases and phosphatases, is also rapidly triggered and spatially constricted. This complexity makes understanding acute regulation of these signalling components problematic. However, the ubiquitous and extensive roles of phospholipids, including phosphatidylinositol-4,5-diphosphate (PI(4,5)P(2)), in cell signalling and developmental processes make understanding the production of these compounds of great importance. We have shown the acute reduction of PI phosphorylation in response to a widely used bipolar disorder and epilepsy treatment, valproic acid, as a potential therapeutic role for the drug using chemotactically competent Dictyostelium. Here we describe a means for measuring acute in vivo phospholipid labelling in Dictyostelium.

Patel, H. and V. G. Brunton (2009). "Loss of FrmA leads to increased cell-cell adhesion and impaired multi-cellular development of Dictyostelium cells." Cell Mol Life Sci 66(1): 145-155.
	Cell-cell adhesion is a critical property of all multi-cellular organisms and its correct regulation is critical during development, differentiation, tissue building and maintenance, and many immune responses. The multi-talin-like FERM domain containing protein, FrmA, is required during starvation-induced multi-cellular development of Dictyostelium cells. Loss of FrmA leads to increased cell-cell adhesion and results in impaired multi-cellular development, slug migration and fruiting bodies. Further, mixing experiments show that FrmA null cells are excluded from the apex of wild-type mounds, to which cells that normally form the organising centre known as the tip sort. These data suggest a critical role for FrmA in regulating cell-cell adhesion, multi-cellular development and, in particular, the formation of the organising centre known as the tip.

Parkinson, K., et al. (2009). "Regulation of Rap1 activity is required for differential adhesion, cell-type patterning and morphogenesis in Dictyostelium." J Cell Sci 122(Pt 3): 335-344.
	Regulated cell adhesion and motility have important roles during growth, development and tissue homeostasis. Consequently, great efforts have been made to identify genes that control these processes. One candidate is Rap1, as it has been implicated in the regulation of adhesion and motility in cell culture. To further study the role of Rap1 during multicellular development, we generated a mutant in a potential Rap1 GTPase activating protein (RapGAPB) in Dictyostelium. rapGAPB(-) cells have increased levels of active Rap1 compared with wild-type cells, indicating that RapGAPB regulates Rap1 activity. Furthermore, rapGAPB(-) cells exhibit hallmark phenotypes of other known mutants with hyperactivated Rap1, including increased substrate adhesion and abnormal F-actin distribution. However, unlike these other mutants, rapGAPB(-) cells do not exhibit impaired motility or chemotaxis, indicating that RapGAPB might only regulate specific roles of Rap1. Importantly, we also found that RapGAPB regulates Rap1 activity during multicellular development and is required for normal morphogenesis. First, streams of aggregating rapGAPB(-) cells break up as a result of decreased cell-cell adhesion. Second, rapGAPB(-) cells exhibit cell-autonomous defects in prestalk cell patterning. Using cell-type-specific markers, we demonstrate that RapGAPB is required for the correct sorting behaviour of different cell types. Finally, we show that inactivation of RapGAPB affects prestalk and prespore cell adhesion. We therefore propose that a possible mechanism for RapGAPB-regulated cell sorting is through differential adhesion.

Park, S. J., et al. (2009). Analysis of cell cycle regulation during vegetative cell growth in Dictyostelium discoideum. The 48th MSK Annual Meeting.
	
Para, A., et al. (2009). "Dictyostelium Dock180-related RacGEFs regulate the actin cytoskeleton during cell motility." Mol Biol Cell 20(2): 699-707.
	Cell motility of amoeboid cells is mediated by localized F-actin polymerization that drives the extension of membrane protrusions to promote forward movements. We show that deletion of either of two members of the Dictyostelium Dock180 family of RacGEFs, DockA and DockD, causes decreased speed of chemotaxing cells. The phenotype is enhanced in the double mutant and expression of DockA or DockD complements the reduced speed of randomly moving DockD null cells' phenotype, suggesting that DockA and DockD are likely to act redundantly and to have similar functions in regulating cell movement. In this regard, we find that overexpressing DockD causes increased cell speed by enhancing F-actin polymerization at the sites of pseudopod extension. DockD localizes to the cell cortex upon chemoattractant stimulation and at the leading edge of migrating cells and this localization is dependent on PI3K activity, suggesting that DockD might be part of the pathway that links PtdIns(3,4,5)P(3) production to F-actin polymerization. Using a proteomic approach, we found that DdELMO1 is associated with DockD and that Rac1A and RacC are possible in vivo DockD substrates. In conclusion, our work provides a further understanding of how cell motility is controlled and provides evidence that the molecular mechanism underlying Dock180-related protein function is evolutionarily conserved.

Palsson, E. (2009). "A cAMP signaling model explains the benefit of maintaining two forms of phosphodiesterase in Dictyostelium." Biophys J 97(9): 2388-2398.
	Starving Dictyostelium cells respond chemotactically to cell-generated waves of cyclic adenosine -3',5'- monophosphate (cAMP) that guide cell aggregation toward a signaling center. In this process, a large number of cells are recruited, resulting in the formation of aggregation territories that are essential for fruiting body formation. The enzyme PdsA phosphodiesterase (PDE), a crucial component of the signaling system, breaks down the external cAMP and can be either membrane-bound or secreted. The existence of two such forms is unusual in cell biology, and it remains to be determined why they have both been maintained through evolution. Here, using a model of the cAMP signaling system, I show that colonies can successfully organize into aggregates over a wider range of initial cell densities when both forms of PDE are present in an appropriately tuned ratio than when only a single form is present. The model indicates that membrane-bound PDE maintains aggregation-territory integrity in colonies with high initial cell density, whereas the secreted form is important for wave propagation at low cell densities. Thus, the ultimate retention of both forms can increase territory size. These findings have implications for other excitable media, including Ca(2+) propagation in cardiac cells and propagation of electrical excitation in nerve axons, since these systems have similar features of spatial nonuniform "release" and "degradation" of the relevant signals.

Painter, K. J. (2009). "Continuous Models for Cell Migration in Tissues and Applications to Cell Sorting via Differential Chemotaxis." Bull Math Biol 71(5): 1117-1147.
	Chemotaxis, the guided migration of cells in response to chemical gradients, is vital to a wide variety of biological processes, including patterning of the slime mold Dictyostelium, embryonic morphogenesis, wound healing, and tumor invasion. Continuous models of chemotaxis have been developed to describe many such systems, yet few have considered the movements within a heterogeneous tissue composed of multiple subpopulations. In this paper, a partial differential equation (PDE) model is developed to describe a tissue formed from two distinct chemotactic populations. For a "crowded" (negligible extracellular space) tissue, it is demonstrated that the model reduces to a simpler one-species system while for an "uncrowded" tissue, it captures both movement of the entire tissue (via cells attaching to/migrating within an extracellular substrate) and the within-tissue rearrangements of the separate cellular subpopulations. The model is applied to explore the sorting of a heterogeneous tissue, where it is shown that differential-chemotaxis not only generates classical sorting patterns previously seen via differential-adhesion, but also demonstrates new classes of behavior. These new phenomena include temporal dynamics consisting of a traveling wave composed of spatially sorted subpopulations reminiscent of Dictyostelium slugs.

Oohata, A. A., et al. (2009). "Differentiation inducing factors in Dictyostelium discoideum: A novel low molecular factor functions at an early stage(s) of differentiation." Dev Growth Differ.
	There are reports that secreted factor(s) are involved in prespore cell differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum, but the structures and functions of the various factors have not been elucidated. Previously, we described two prespore cell-inducing factors in conditioned medium; one was a glycoprotein named prespore cell-inducing factor (psi factor, or PSI-1), and the other, a heat stable dialyzable factor(s). In the present paper, we purified and characterized the most potent prespore cell-inducing activity in dialysates. The factor began to be secreted after the onset of starvation and stopped being secreted once the cells had aggregated, which was earlier than the onset of the psi factor gene expression. In addition, unlike psi factor, its secretion did not appear to depend on activation of protein kinase A. Interestingly, the purified factor not only induced prespore cell specific genes such as pspA and cotC but also a prestalk-cell specific gene, ecmB in vitro. The purified factor is tentatively designated polyketide-like factor (PLF), because it seems to be a novel polyketide with 208 Da. Half maximal induction of prespore cell was obtained with 26 nmol/L of PLF. We propose that PLF plays a key role in the acquisition of differentiation commitment, before the psi factor induces specifically prespore cell differentiation.

Ogasawara, S., et al. (2009). "Role of an expansin-like molecule in Dictyostelium morphogenesis and regulation of its gene expression by the signal transducer and activator of transcription protein Dd-STATa." Dev Growth Differ 51(2): 109-122.
	Expansins are proteins involved in plant morphogenesis, exerting their effects on cellulose to extend cell walls. Dictyostelium is an organism that possesses expansin-like molecules, but their functions are not known. In this study, we analyzed the expL7 (expansin-like 7) gene, which has been identified as a putative target of Dd-STATa, a Dictyostelium homolog of the metazoan signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT) proteins. Promoter fragments of the expL7 were fused to a lacZ reporter and the expression patterns determined. As expected from the behavior of the endogenous expL7 gene, the expL7/lacZ fusion gene was downregulated in Dd-STATa null slugs. In the parental strain, the expL7 promoter was activated in the anterior tip region. Mutational analysis of the promoter identified a sequence that was necessary for expression in tip cells. In addition, an activator sequence for pstAB cells was identified. These sequences act in combination with the repressor region to prevent ectopic expL7 expression in the prespore and prestalk regions of the slug and culminant. Although the expL7 null mutant showed no phenotypic change, the expL7 overexpressor showed aberrant stalk formation. These results indicate that the expansin-like molecule is important for morphogenesis in Dictyostelium.

O'Day, D. H., et al. (2009). "Differentiation inducing factor-1 (DIF-1) induces gene and protein expression of the Dictyostelium nuclear calmodulin-binding protein nucleomorphin." Cell Signal 21(2): 317-323.
	The nucleomorphin gene numA1 from Dictyostelium codes for a multi-domain, calmodulin binding protein that regulates nuclear number. To gain insight into the regulation of numA, we assessed the effects of the stalk cell differentiation inducing factor-1 (DIF-1), an extracellular signalling molecule, on the expression of numA1 RNA and protein. For comparison, the extracellular signalling molecules cAMP (mediates chemotaxis, prestalk and prespore differentiation) and ammonia (NH(3)/NH(4)(+); antagonizes DIF) were also studied. Starvation, which is a signal for multicellular development, results in a greater than 80% decrease in numA1 mRNA expression within 4 h. Treatment with ammonium chloride led to a greater than 90% inhibition of numA1 RNA expression within 2 h. In contrast, the addition of DIF-1 completely blocked the decrease in numA1 gene expression caused by starvation. Treatment of vegetative cells with cAMP led to decreases in numA1 RNA expression that were equivalent to those seen with starvation. Western blotting after various morphogen treatments showed that the maintenance of vegetative levels of numA1 RNA by DIF-1 in starved cells was reflected in significantly increased numA1 protein levels. Treatment with cAMP and/or ammonia led to decreased protein expression and each of these morphogens suppressed the stimulatory effects of DIF-1. Protein expression levels of CBP4a, a calcium-dependent binding partner of numA1, were regulated in the same manner as numA1 suggesting this potential co-regulation may be related to their functional relationship. NumA1 is the first calmodulin binding protein shown to be regulated by developmental morphogens in Dictyostelium being upregulated by DIF-1 and down-regulated by cAMP and ammonia.

Nordstrom, K. J., et al. (2009). "The Secretin GPCRs descended from the family of Adhesion GPCRs." Mol Biol Evol 26(1): 71-84.
	The Adhesion G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) are the most complex gene family among GPCRs with large genomic size, multiple introns, and a fascinating flora of functional domains, though the evolutionary origin of this family has been obscure. Here we studied the evolution of all class B (7tm2)-related genes, including the Adhesion, Secretin, and Methuselah families of GPCRs with a focus on nine genomes. We found that the cnidarian genome of Nematostella vectensis has a remarkably rich set of Adhesion GPCRs with a broad repertoire of N-terminal domains although this genome did not have any Secretin GPCRs. Moreover, the single-celled and colony-forming eukaryotes Monosiga brevicollis and Dictyostelium discoideum contain Adhesion-like GPCRs although these genomes do not have any Secretin GPCRs suggesting that the Adhesion types of GPCRs are the most ancient among class B GPCRs. Phylogenetic analysis found Adhesion group V (that contains GPR133 and GPR144) to be the closest relative to the Secretin family in the Adhesion family. Moreover, Adhesion group V sequences in N. vectensis share the same splice site setup as the Secretin GPCRs. Additionally, one of the most conserved motifs in the entire Secretin family is only found in group V of the Adhesion family. We suggest therefore that the Secretin family of GPCRs could have descended from group V Adhesion GPCRs. We found a set of unique Adhesion-like GPCRs in N. vectensis that have long N-termini containing one Somatomedin B domain each, which is a domain configuration similar to that of a set of Adhesion-like GPCRs found in Branchiostoma floridae. These sequences show slight similarities to Methuselah sequences found in insects. The extended class B GPCRs have a very complex evolutionary history with several species-specific expansions, and we identified at least 31 unique N-terminal domains originating from other protein classes. The overall N-terminal domain structure, however, concurs with the phylogenetic analysis of the transmembrane domains, thus enabling us to track the origin of most of the subgroups.

Nguyen, H. N. and J. A. Hadwiger (2009). "The Galpha4 G protein subunit interacts with the MAP kinase ERK2 using a D-motif that regulates developmental morphogenesis in Dictyostelium." Dev Biol 335(2): 385-395.
	G protein Galpha subunits contribute to the specificity of different signal transduction pathways in Dictyostelium discoideum but Galpha subunit-effector interactions have not been previously identified. The requirement of the Dictyostelium Galpha4 subunit for MAP kinase (MAPK) activation and the identification of a putative MAPK docking site (D-motif) in this subunit suggested a possible interaction between the Galpha4 subunit and MAPKs. In vivo association of the Galpha4 subunit and ERK2 was demonstrated by pull-down and co-immunoprecipitation assays. Alteration of the D-motif reduced Galpha4 subunit-ERK2 interactions but only slightly altered MAPK activation in response to folate. Expression of the Galpha4 subunit with the altered D-motif in galpha4(-)cells allowed for slug formation but not the morphogenesis associated with culmination. Expression of this mutant Galpha4 subunit was sufficient to rescue chemotactic movement to folate. Alteration of the D-motif also reduced the aggregation defect associated with constitutively active Galpha4 subunits. These results suggest Galpha4 subunit-MAPK interactions are necessary for developmental morphogenesis but not for chemotaxis to folate.

Nagasaki, A., et al. (2009). "Cell adhesion molecules regulate contractile ring-independent cytokinesis in Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Res 19(2): 236-246.
	To investigate the roles of substrate adhesion in cytokinesis, we established cell lines lacking paxillin (PAXB) or vinculin (VINA), and those expressing the respective GFP fusion proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum. As in mammalian cells, GFP-PAXB and GFP-VINA formed focal adhesion-like complexes on the cell bottom. paxB(-) cells in suspension grew normally, but on substrates, often failed to divide after regression of the furrow. The efficient cytokinesis of paxB(-) cells in suspension is not because of shear forces to assist abscission, as they divided normally in static suspension culture as well. Double knockout strains lacking mhcA, which codes for myosin II, and paxB or vinA displayed more severe cytokinetic defects than each single knockout strain. In mitotic wild-type cells, GFP-PAXB was diffusely distributed on the basal membrane, but was strikingly condensed along the polar edges in mitotic mhcA(-) cells. These results are consistent with our idea that Dictyostelium displays two forms of cytokinesis, one that is contractile ring-dependent and adhesion-independent, and the other that is contractile ring-independent and adhesion-dependent, and that the latter requires PAXB and VINA. Furthermore, that paxB(-) cells fail to divide normally in the presence of substrate adhesion suggests that this adhesion molecule may play additional signaling roles.

Myre, M. A., et al. (2009). "Reduced amyloidogenic processing of the amyloid beta-protein precursor by the small-molecule Differentiation Inducing Factor-1." Cell Signal 21(4): 567-576.
	The detection of cell cycle proteins in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brains may represent an early event leading to neurodegeneration. To identify cell cycle modifiers with anti-Abeta properties, we assessed the effect of Differentiation-Inducing Factor-1 (DIF-1), a unique, small-molecule from Dictyostelium discoideum, on the proteolysis of the amyloid beta-protein precursor (APP) in a variety of different cell types. We show that DIF-1 slows cell cycle progression through G0/G1 that correlates with a reduction in cyclin D1 protein levels. Western blot analysis of DIF-treated cells and conditioned medium revealed decreases in the levels of secreted APP, mature APP, and C-terminal fragments. Assessment of conditioned media by sandwich ELISA showed reduced levels of Abeta40 and Abeta42, also demonstrating that treatment with DIF-1 effectively decreases the ratio of Abeta42 to Abeta40. In addition, DIF-1 significantly diminished APP phosphorylation at residue T668. Interestingly, site-directed mutagenesis of APP residue Thr668 to alanine or glutamic acid abolished the effect of DIF-1 on APP proteolysis and restored secreted levels of Abeta. Finally, DIF-1 prevented the accumulation of APP C-terminal fragments induced by the proteasome inhibitor lactacystin, and calpain inhibitor N-acetyl-leucyl-leucyl-norleucinal (ALLN). Our findings suggest that DIF-1 affects G0/G1-associated amyloidogenic processing of APP by a gamma-secretase-, proteasome- and calpain-insensitive pathway, and that this effect requires the presence of residue Thr668.

Muller-Taubenberger, A., et al. (2009). "The STE group kinase sepA controls cleavage furrow formation in Dictyostelium." Cell Motil Cytoskeleton 66(11): 929-939.
	During a REMI screen for proteins regulating cytokinesis in Dictyostelium discoideum we isolated a mutant forming multinucleate cells. The gene affected in this mutant encoded a kinase, SepA, which is an ortholog of Cdc7, a serine-threonine kinase essential for septum formation in Schizosaccharomyces pombe. Localization of SepA-GFP in live cells and its presence in isolated centrosomes indicated that SepA, like its upstream regulator Spg1, is associated with centrosomes. Knockout mutants of SepA showed a severe cytokinesis defect and a delay in development. In multinucleate SepA-null cells nuclear division proceeded normally and synchronously. However, often cleavage furrows were either missing or atypical: they were extremely asymmetric and constriction was impaired. Cortexillin-I, a marker localizing strictly to the furrow in wild-type cells, demonstrated that large, crescent-shaped furrows expanded and persisted long after the spindle regressed and nuclei returned to the interphase state. Outside the furrow the filamentous actin system of the cell cortex showed strong ruffling activity. These data suggest that SepA is involved in the spatial and temporal control system organizing cortical activities in mitotic and postmitotic cells. Cell Motil. Cytoskeleton, 2009. (c) 2009 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

Mujumdar, N., et al. (2009). "The trishanku gene and terminal morphogenesis in Dictyostelium discoideum." Evol Dev 11(6): 697-709.
	Multicellular development in the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum is triggered by starvation. It involves a series of morphogenetic movements, among them being the rising of the spore mass to the tip of the stalk. The process requires precise coordination between two distinct cell types-presumptive (pre-) spore cells and presumptive (pre-) stalk cells. Trishanku (triA) is a gene expressed in prespore cells that is required for normal morphogenesis. The triA(-) mutant shows pleiotropic effects that include an inability of the spore mass to go all the way to the top. We have examined the cellular behavior required for the normal ascent of the spore mass. Grafting and mixing experiments carried out with tissue fragments and cells show that the upper cup, a tissue that derives from prestalk cells and anterior-like cells (ALCs), does not develop properly in a triA(-) background. A mutant upper cup is unable to lift the spore mass to the top of the fruiting body, likely due to defective intercellular adhesion. If wild-type upper cup function is provided by prestalk and ALCs, trishanku spores ascend all the way. Conversely, Ax2 spores fail to do so in chimeras in which the upper cup is largely made up of mutant cells. Besides proving that under these conditions the wild-type phenotype of the upper cup is necessary and sufficient for terminal morphogenesis in D. discoideum, this study provides novel insights into developmental and evolutionary aspects of morphogenesis in general. Genes that are active exclusively in one cell type can elicit behavior in a second cell type that enhances the reproductive fitness of the first cell type, thereby showing that morphogenesis is a cooperative process.

Moreno, S. N. J. and R. Docampo (2009). "The Role of Acidocalcisomes in Parasitic Protists." J. Euk. Microbiol. 56(3): 208-213.
	Acidocalcisomes are acidic organelles with a high concentration of phosphorus present as pyrophosphate (PPi) and polyphosphate (poly P) complexed with calcium and other cations. The acidocalcisome membrane contains a number of pumps (Ca2+-ATPase, V-H+-ATPase, H+-PPase), exchangers (Na+/H+, Ca2+/H+), and channels (aquaporins), while its matrix contains enzymes related to PPi and poly P metabolism. Acidocalcisomes have been observed in pathogenic, as well as non-pathogenic prokaryotes and eukaryotes, e.g. Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, and Dictyostelium discoideum. Some of the potential functions of the acidocalcisome are the storage of cations and phosphorus, the participation of phosphorus in PPi and poly P metabolism, calcium homeostasis, maintenance of intracellular pH homeostasis, and osmoregulation. In addition, acidocalcisomes resemble lysosome-related organelles (LRO) from mammalian cells in many of their properties. For example, we found that platelet dense granules, which are LROs, are very similar to acidocalcisomes. They share a similar size, acidic properties, and both contain PPi, poly P, and calcium. Recent work that indicates that they also share the system for targeting of their membrane proteins through adaptor protein 3 reinforces this concept. The fact that acidocalcisomes interact with other organelles in parasitic protists, e.g. the contractile vacuole in Trypanosoma cruzi, and other vacuoles observed in Toxoplasma gondii, suggests that these cellular compartments may be associated with the endosomal/lysosomal pathway. Class Descriptors: NAL: QL366.J67

Miyanaga, Y., et al. (2009). "Single-molecule imaging techniques to visualize chemotactic signaling events on the membrane of living Dictyostelium cells." Meth Mol Biol 571: 417-435.
	In this chapter, we describe methods to monitor signaling events at the single-molecule level on the membrane of living cells by using total internal reflection fluorescence microscopy (TIRFM). The techniques provide a powerful tool for elucidating the stochastic properties of signaling molecules involved in chemotaxis of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. Taking cAMP receptor 1 (cAR1) as an example of a target protein for single-molecule imaging, we describe the experimental setup of TIRFM, a method for labeling cAR1 with a fluorescent dye, and a method for investigating the receptor's lateral mobility. We discuss how the developmental progression of cells modulates both cAR1 behavior and the phenotypic variability in cAR1 mobility for different cell populations.

Middlemist, S. (2009). Mutational processes in Dictyostelium discoideum: How mutations affect social behaviors and fitness. United States -- Texas, Rice University: 146.
	Part I. Mutation is the most important biological force as it generates the variation that drives evolution and may play an important role in maintaining social structure in the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum. Using mutation accumulation lines of the social amoeba, I estimated the rate and degree of mutational effects on the social ability to form spores in chimeras by mixing equal proportions of cells of the ancestral clone with a mutated line and determining if the resultant spore proportion differs. Through the use of assays measuring growth, migration ability, and rates of spore germination, I assessed the fitness effects of mutation. In agreement with evidence that the majority of mutations are deleterious, I have found that the ability to get into the reproductive spores is diminished following mutation accumulation. Measuring growth rates on the selective medium revealed that approximately half of the lines showing a significant deviation from the ancestor have increased growth rates, possibly indicating the presence of beneficial mutations, while growth in a non-selective medium resulted in a loss of fitness. Additionally, spore germination decreased in lines with an abundance of mutations. Part II. Restriction Enzyme Mediated Integration (REMI) is a method of transformation that generates tagged mutations. We employed the REMI mutants to select for cheaters by competing pools of mutants over many generations, allowing the lines to fruit each time. We plated out high densities of spores in order to facilitate the lines bypassing the vegetative cycle but still allowing the social cycle. This process was repeated 20 times. At the end of this process, the frequency of each line was assessed and each line was sequenced to identify the genes that were affected by REMI mutagenesis. Once we had obligate cheaters, we assessed fitness in a variety of ways: axenic growth and growth on bacteria, rate of spore germination, and distance traveled by migrating slugs. We then looked for a correlation between cheating and fitness. We expect to see a tradeoff between the ability to preferentially produce spores in chimeric mixtures and other aspects of fitness.

Mehdiabadi, N. J., et al. (2009). "Phylogeny, reproductive isolation and kin recognition in the social amoeba Dictyostelium purpureum." Evolution 63(2): 542-548.
	Little is known about the population structure of social microorganisms, yet such studies are particularly interesting for the ways that genetic variation impacts their social evolution. Dictyostelium, a eukaryotic microbe widely used as a developmental model, has a social fruiting stage in which some formerly independent individuals die to help others. To assess genetic variation within the social amoeba Dictyostelium purpureum, we sequenced approximately 4000 base pairs of ribosomal DNA (rDNA) from 37 isolates collected in Texas, Virginia, and Japan. Our analysis showed extensive genetic variation between populations and clear evidence of phylogenetic structure. We identified three major phylogenetic groups that were more different than other accepted species pairs. Tests using pairs of clones showed that both sexual macrocyst and asexual fruiting body formation were influenced by genetic divergence. Macrocysts were less likely to form between pairs of clones from different groups than from the same group. There was also a correlation between the genetic divergence of a pair of clones and their degree of mixing within fruiting bodies. These observations suggest that cryptic species might occur within D. purpureum and, more importantly, reveal how genetic variation impacts social interactions.

Masson, P., et al. (2009). "Characterization of a REG/PA28 proteasome activator homolog in Dictyostelium discoideum indicates that the ubiquitin- and ATP-independent REGgamma proteasome is an ancient nuclear protease." Euk Cell 8(6): 844-851.
	The nuclear proteasome activator REGgamma/PA28gamma is an ATP- and ubiquitin-independent activator of the 20S proteasome and has been proposed to degrade and thereby regulate both a key human oncogene, encoding the coactivator SRC-3/AIB1, and the cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor p21 (Waf/Cip1). We report the identification and characterization of a PA28/REG homolog in Dictyostelium. Association of a recombinant Dictyostelium REG with the purified Dictyostelium 20S proteasome led to the preferential stimulation of the trypsin-like proteasome peptidase activity. Immunolocalization studies demonstrated that the proteasome activator is localized to the nucleus and is present in growing as well as starving Dictyostelium cells. Our results indicate that the Dictyostelium PA28/REG activator can stimulate both the trypsin-like and chymotrypsin-like activities of the 20S proteasome and supports the idea that the REGgamma-20S proteasome represents an early unique nuclear degradation pathway for eukaryotic cells.

Mason, D. A., et al. (2009). "Evolution of the Metazoan-Specific Importin alpha Gene Family." J Mol Evol 68(4): 351-365.
	Importin ?s are import receptors for nuclear localization signal-containing proteins. Most animal importin ?s assort into ?1, ?2, and ?3 groups. Studies in Drosophila melanogaster, Caenorhabditis elegans, and mouse suggest that the animal importin ? gene family evolved from ancestral plant-like genes to serve paralog-specific roles in gametogenesis. To explore this hypothesis we extended the phylogenetic analysis of the importin ? gene family to nonbilateral animals and investigated whether animal-like genes occur in premetazoan taxa. Maximum likelihood analysis suggests that animal-like importin ? genes occur in the Choanoflaggelate Monosiga brevicollis and the amoebozoan Dictyostelium; however, both of these results are caused by long-branch attraction effects. The absence of animal-like ? genes in premetazoan taxa is consistent with the hypothesis that they duplicated and then specialized to function in animal gametogenesis. The gene structures of the importin ?s provide insight into how the animal importin ? gene family may have evolved from the most likely ancestral gene. Interestingly, animal ?1s are more similar to plant and fungal ?1-like sequences than they are to animal ?2s or ?3s. We show that animal ?1 genes share most of their introns with plant ?1-like genes, and ?2s and ?3s share many more intron positions with each other than with the ?1s. Together, phylogenetics and gene structure analysis suggests a parsimonious path for the evolution of the mammalian importin ? gene family from an ancestral ?1-like progenitor. Finally, these results establish a rational basis for a unified nomenclature of the importin ? gene family. Class Descriptors: NAL: QH359.J6

Marchetti, A., et al. (2009). "A measure of endosomal pH by flow cytometry in Dictyostelium." BMC Res Notes 2: 7.
	ABSTRACT: BACKGROUND: Dictyostelium amoebae are frequently used to study the organization and function of the endocytic pathway, and specific protocols are essential to measure the dynamics of endocytic compartments and their internal pH. FINDINGS: We have revisited these classical protocols to measure more accurately endosomal pH, making use of a fluorescent probe (Oregon green) more adequate for very acidic pH values. This pH-sensitive probe was combined with a pH-insensitive marker, in order to visualize simultaneously endosome dynamics and pH changes. Finally, a flow cytometer was used to measure endosomal pH in individual cells. CONCLUSION: Using these simple protocols the endosomal pH of endocytic compartments can be assessed accurately, revealing the extreme acidity of Dictyostelium lysosomes (pH <3.5).

Mana-Capelli, S., et al. (2009). "Dictyostelium discoideum CenB is a bona fide centrin essential for nuclear architecture and centrosome stability." Euk Cell 8(8): 1106-1117.
	Centrins are a family of proteins within the calcium-binding EF-hand superfamily. In addition to the archetypical role at the MTOC, centrins have acquired multiple functionalities throughout the course of evolution. For example, centrins have been linked to different nuclear activities, including mRNA export and DNA repair. Dictyostelium discoideum centrin B is a divergent member of the centrin family. At the amino acid level, DdCenB shows 51 % identity with its closest relative and only paralog, DdCenA. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that DdCenB and DdCenA form a well supported monophyletic and divergent group within the centrin family of proteins. Interestingly, fluorescently-tagged versions of DdCenB were not found at the centrosome (in whole cells or isolated centrosomes). Instead, DdCenB localized to the nuclei of interphase cells. This localization disappeared as cells entered mitosis, although Dictyostelium cells undergo a closed mitosis in which the NE does not breakdown. DdCenB knockout cells exhibited aberrant nuclear architecture, characterized by enlarged and deformed nuclei, and loss of proper centrosome-nucleus anchoring (observed as NE protrusions). At the centrosome, loss of DdCenB resulted in defects in the organization and morphology of the MTOC, supernumerary centrosomes, and centrosome-related bodies. The multiple defects that loss of DdCenB generated at the centrosome can be explained by its atypical division cycle, transitioning into the NE as it divides at mitosis. On the basis of these findings, we propose that DdCenB is required at interphase to maintain proper nuclear architecture, and, before delocalizing from the nucleus, DdCenB is part of the centrosome duplication machinery.

Mahowald, J., et al. (2009). "Impact of external stimuli and cell micro-architecture on intracellular transport states." Chemphyschem 10(9-10): 1559-1566.
	A living cell is a complex out-of-equilibrium system, in which a great variety of biochemical and physical processes have to be coordinated to ensure viability. We investigate properties of intracellular transport in single cells of the amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum, a relevant model organism due to its cytoskeleton simplicity. In the cells, vesicles undergo two types of motion: directed transport, driven by molecular motors on filaments, or thermal diffusion in a crowded active medium. We present results obtained with our recently developed TRAnSpORT algorithm, which performs a high-resolution temporal analysis of the track of endosomal superparamagnetic particles and splits intracellular transport into different motion states. It results in a two-state model, distinguishing active and passive transport phenomena. We can extract the precise effect of cellular micro- and nanoarchitecture on endosomal transport by disturbing the cytoskeleton through the use of depolymerizing drugs (Benomyl for microtubules, and Latrunculin A for F-actin). Further, we investigate how cytoskeleton filaments act together in order to maintain cell integrity, by applying external mechanical force on the magnetic particle and influencing its motion.

Maeda, Y., et al. (2009). "Folic Acid is A Potent Chemoattractant of Free-Living Amoebae in A New and Amazing Species of Protist, Vahlkampfia sp." Zoolog Sci 26(3): 179-186.
	Folic acid (folate; vitamin Bc) is well recognized as essential for the proper metabolism of the essential amino acid methionine as well as for the synthesis of adenine and thymine. A folate deficiency has been Implicated in a wide variety of disorders from Alzheimer's disease to depression and neural tube defects. In the cellular slime molds, including Dictyostelium, vegetative growthphase cells are known to chemotactically move toward folate that is secreted by bacterial food sources such as Escherichia coli. Intracellular folate signal transductlon, including G proteins, Ca(2+)channels, and the PIP3 pathway, has been reported in D. discoideum. To our surprise, the genuine chemoattractant(s) of free-living protozoan amoebae have remained to be determined, possibly because of lack of a pertinent method for assaying chemotaxis. We recently isolated a primitive free-living amoeba from the soil of Costa Rica and identified it as a new species of the genus Vahlkampfia belonging to Subclass Gymnamoebia, which includes Entamoeba and Acanthamoeba. The amoebae can grow and multiply quite rapidly, engulfing nearby bacteria such as E. coli. Importantly, we have demonstrated here using a quite simple but finely designed chemotaxis assay that the Vahlkampfia amoebae exhibit chemotaxis toward higher folate concentrations. Riboflavin and cyanocobalamin were also found to serve as positive chemoattractants. Among these chemoattractants, folate is of particular importance because its function seems to be evolutionarily conserved as a potent chemoattractant of amoeboid cells in a wide range of organisms as well as in the Protista and cellular slime molds.

Lusche, D. F., et al. (2009). "The effects of extracellular calcium on motility, pseudopod and uropod formation, chemotaxis, and the cortical localization of myosin II in Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Motil Cytoskeleton 66(8): 567-587.
	Extracellular Ca(++), a ubiquitous cation in the soluble environment of cells both free living and within the human body, regulates most aspects of amoeboid cell motility, including shape, uropod formation, pseudopod formation, velocity, and turning in Dictyostelium discoideum. Hence it affects the efficiency of both basic motile behavior and chemotaxis. Extracellular Ca(++) is optimal at 10 mM. A gradient of the chemoattractant cAMP generated in the absence of added Ca(++) only affects turning, but in combination with extracellular Ca(++), enhances the effects of extracellular Ca(++). Potassium, at 40 mM, can partially substitute for Ca(++). Mg(++), Mn(++), Zn(++), and Na(+) cannot. Extracellular Ca(++), or K(+), also induce the cortical localization of myosin II in a polar fashion. The effects of Ca(++), K(+) or a cAMP gradient do not appear to be similarly mediated by an increase in the general pool of free cytosolic Ca(++). These results suggest a model, in which each agent functioning through different signaling systems, converge to affect the cortical localization of myosin II, which in turn effects the behavioral changes leading to efficient cell motility and chemotaxis. Cell Motil. Cytoskeleton 2009. (c) 2009 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

Luo, J., et al. (2009). "Evaluating the evolution of G. lamblia based on the small nucleolar RNAs identified from Archaea and unicellular eukaryotes." Parasitol Res 104(6): 1543-1546.
	The evolutionary position of Giardia lamblia has been challenged in recent years. Comparison of the snoRNAs identified from Archaea and unicellular eukaryotes shows that G. lamblia snoRNAs are more similar in most respects to the counterparts identified from Dictyostelium discoideum, Plasmodium falciparum, fungi, and some metazoans, remarkably differently from those of Euglenozoa protozoans. We propose that G. lamblia emerged somewhat later than Trypanosoma and Euglena during the early evolution of excavata eukaryotes. Class Descriptors: NAL: QL757.P377

Luciani, M. F., et al. (2009). "Autophagic or necrotic cell death triggered by distinct motifs of the differentiation factor DIF-1." Cell Death Differ 16(4): 564-570.
	Autophagic or necrotic cell death (ACD and NCD, respectively), studied in the model organism Dictyostelium which offers unique advantages, require triggering by the same differentiation-inducing factor DIF-1. To initiate these two types of cell death, does DIF-1 act through only one or through two distinct recognition structures? Such distinct structures may recognize distinct motifs of DIF-1. To test this albeit indirectly, DIF-1 was modified at one or two of several positions, and the corresponding derivatives were tested for their abilities to induce ACD or NCD. The results strongly indicated that distinct biochemical motifs of DIF-1 were required to trigger ACD or NCD, and that these motifs were separately recognized at the onset of ACD or NCD. In addition, both ACD and NCD were induced more efficiently by DIF-1 than by either its precursors or its immediate catabolite. These results showed an unexpected relation between a differentiation factor, the cellular structures that recognize it, the cell death types it can trigger and the metabolic state of the cell. The latter seems to guide the choice of the signaling pathway to cell death, which in turn imposes the cell death type and the recognition pattern of the differentiation factor.

Lucas, J., et al. (2009). "The carboxy-terminal domain of Dictyostelium C-module-binding factor is an independent gene regulatory entity." PLoS One 4(4): e5012.
	The C-module-binding factor (CbfA) is a multidomain protein that belongs to the family of jumonji-type (JmjC) transcription regulators. In the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum, CbfA regulates gene expression during the unicellular growth phase and multicellular development. CbfA and a related D. discoideum CbfA-like protein, CbfB, share a paralogous domain arrangement that includes the JmjC domain, presumably a chromatin-remodeling activity, and two zinc finger-like (ZF) motifs. On the other hand, the CbfA and CbfB proteins have completely different carboxy-terminal domains, suggesting that the plasticity of such domains may have contributed to the adaptation of the CbfA-like transcription factors to the rapid genome evolution in the dictyostelid clade. To support this hypothesis we performed DNA microarray and real-time RT-PCR measurements and found that CbfA regulates at least 160 genes during the vegetative growth of D. discoideum cells. Functional annotation of these genes revealed that CbfA predominantly controls the expression of gene products involved in housekeeping functions, such as carbohydrate, purine nucleoside/nucleotide, and amino acid metabolism. The CbfA protein displays two different mechanisms of gene regulation. The expression of one set of CbfA-dependent genes requires at least the JmjC/ZF domain of the CbfA protein and thus may depend on chromatin modulation. Regulation of the larger group of genes, however, does not depend on the entire CbfA protein and requires only the carboxy-terminal domain of CbfA (CbfA-CTD). An AT-hook motif located in CbfA-CTD, which is known to mediate DNA binding to A+T-rich sequences in vitro, contributed to CbfA-CTD-dependent gene regulatory functions in vivo.

Lozupone, F., et al. (2009). "The human homologue of Dictyostelium discoideum phg1A is expressed by human metastatic melanoma cells." EMBO Rep 10(12): 1348-1354.
	Tumour cannibalism is a characteristic of malignancy and metastatic behaviour. This atypical phagocytic activity is a crucial survival option for tumours in conditions of low nutrient supply, and has some similarities to the phagocytic activity of unicellular microorganisms. In fact, Dictyostelium discoideum has been used widely as a model to study phagocytosis. Recently, phg1A has been described as a protein that is primarily involved in the phagocytic process of this microorganism. The closest human homologue to phg1A is transmembrane 9 superfamily protein member 4 (TM9SF4). Here, we report that TM9SF4 is highly expressed in human malignant melanoma cells deriving from metastatic lesions, whereas it is undetectable in healthy human tissues and cells. TM9SF4 is predominantly expressed in acidic vesicles of melanoma cells, in which it co-localizes with the early endosome antigens Rab5 and early endosome antigen 1. TM9SF4 silencing induced marked inhibition of cannibal activity, which is consistent with a derangement of intracellular pH gradients, with alkalinization of acidic vesicles and acidification of the cell cytosol. We propose TM9SF4 as a new marker of malignancy, representing a potential new target for anti-tumour strategies with a specific role in tumour cannibalism and in the establishment of a metastatic phenotype.

Liao, X. H. and A. R. Kimmel (2009). "Biochemical responses to chemoattractants in Dictyostelium: ligand-receptor interactions and downstream kinase activation." Meth Mol Biol 571: 271-281.
	Dictyostelium discoideum is one of the most facile eukaryotic systems for the study of chemotactic response to secreted chemical ligands. Dictyostelium grow as individual cells, using bacteria and fungi as primary nutrient sources; during growth, Dictyostelium moves directionally toward folate, a bacterial byproduct. Upon nutrient depletion Dictyostelium initiates a multicellular development program characterized by the production and secretion of cAMP. Cell surface receptors specifically recognize extracellular cAMP, which serves as both a morphogen to promote development and a chemoattractant to organize multicellularity. We discuss several approaches for the study of ligand-receptor interaction, with focus on affinity class determination and quantification of ligand binding sites (i.e., receptors) per cell. We further present examples for the application of biochemical assays to characterize the ligand-induced kinase activation of PI3K, GSK3, and ERK2.

Li, Z., et al. (2009). "The amoebal MAP kinase response to Legionella pneumophila is regulated by DupA." Cell Host Microbe 6(3): 253-267.
	The amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum can support replication of Legionella pneumophila. Here we identify the dupA gene, encoding a putative tyrosine kinase/dual-specificity phosphatase, in a screen for D. discoideum mutants altered in allowing L. pneumophila intracellular replication. Inactivation of dupA resulted in depressed L. pneumophila growth and sustained hyperphosphorylation of the amoebal MAP kinase ERK1, consistent with loss of a phosphatase activity. Bacterial challenge of wild-type amoebae induced dupA expression and resulted in transiently increased ERK1 phosphorylation, suggesting that dupA and ERK1 are part of a response to bacteria. Indeed, over 500 of the genes misregulated in the dupA(-) mutant were regulated in response to L. pneumophila infection, including some thought to have immune-like functions. MAP kinase phosphatases are known to be highly upregulated in macrophages challenged with L. pneumophila. Thus, DupA may regulate a MAP kinase response to bacteria that is conserved from amoebae to mammals.

Lee, S., et al. (2009). "Regulation of the formation and trafficking of vesicles from Golgi by PCH family proteins during chemotaxis." Biochim Biophys Acta 1793(7): 1199-1209.
	Previous study demonstrated that WASP localizes on vesicles during Dictyostelium chemotaxis and these vesicles appear to be preferentially distributed at the leading and trailing edge of migrating cells. In this study, we have examined the role of PCH family proteins, Nwk/Bzz1p-like protein (NLP) and Syndapin-like protein (SLP), in the regulation of the formation and trafficking of WASP-vesicles during chemotaxis. NLP and SLP appear to be functionally redundant and deletion of both nlp and slp genes causes the loss of polarized F-actin organization and significant defects in chemotaxis. WASP and NLP are colocalized on vesicles and interactions between two molecules via the SH3 domain of NLP/SLP and the proline-rich repeats of WASP are required for vesicle formation from Golgi. Microtubules are required for polarized trafficking of these vesicles as vesicles showing high directed mobility are absent in cells treated with nocodazole. Our results suggest that interaction of WASP with NLP/SLP is required for the formation and trafficking of vesicles from Golgi to the membrane, which might play a central role in the establishment of cell polarity during chemotaxis.

Le, P., et al. (2009). "Transcription of the Dictyostelium discoideum mitochondrial genome occurs from a single initiation site." Rna.
	Transcription of the mitochondrial genome in Dictyostelium discoideum gives rise to eight major polycistronic RNA species that can be detected by Northern hybridization. In order to determine whether these transcripts could possibly derive from processing of even larger transcripts, reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reactions (RT-PCRs) were performed in an attempt to amplify the intervening regions between the eight major transcripts. All but one intervening region were successfully reverse transcribed and amplified, indicating that even larger transcripts existed and that the eight major transcripts detected previously may be the products of transcript processing. Southern hybridization analyses of DNA fragments representing the sequences between the eight major transcripts with in vitro capped mitochondrial RNA identified the 5' end of only one of the eight major transcripts as a genuine transcription start site. The ability to initiate transcription from DNA sequences upstream of the identified transcription initiation site was demonstrated in bacterial cells expressing the Dictyostelium mitochondrial RNA polymerase. We conclude that transcription of the Dictyostelium mitochondrial genome is initiated at a single site, generating a large polycistronic transcript that is very efficiently, probably cotranscriptionally processed into mature RNA species. This is the first report on a protist mitochondrial DNA that is, although much larger in size than its metazoan counterparts, transcribed from a single transcription initiation site.

Lavialle, F., et al. (2009). "Nanovesicles released by Dictyostelium cells: a potential carrier for drug delivery." Int J Pharm 380(1-2): 206-215.
	Nanovesicles released by Dictyostelium discoideum cells grown in the presence of the DNA-specific dye Hoechst 33342 have been previously shown to mediate the transfer of the dye into the nuclei of Hoechst-resistant cells. The present investigation extends this work by conducting experiments in the presence of hypericin, a fluorescent therapeutic photosensitizer assayed for antitumoral photodynamic therapy. Nanovesicles released by Dictyostelium cells exhibit an averaged diameter between 50 and 150 nm, as measured by transmission cryoelectron microscopy. A proteomic analysis reveals a predominance of actin and actin-related proteins. The detection of a lysosomal membrane protein (LIMP II) indicates that these vesicles are likely generated in the late endosomal compartment. The use of the hypericin-containing nanovesicles as nanodevices for in vitro drug delivery was investigated by fluorescence microscopy. The observed signal was almost exclusively located in the perinuclear area of two human cell lines, skin fibroblasts (HS68) and cervix carcinoma (HeLa) cells. Studies by confocal microscopy with specific markers of cell organelles, provided evidence that hypericin was accumulated in the Golgi apparatus. All these data shed a new light on in vitro drug delivery by using cell-released vesicles as carriers.

Kuzmic, P., et al. (2009). "Analysis of residuals from enzyme kinetic and protein folding experiments in the presence of correlated experimental noise." Anal Biochem 395(1): 1-7.
	Experimental data from continuous enzyme assays or protein folding experiments often contain hundreds, or even thousands, of densely spaced data points. When the sampling interval is extremely short, the experimental data points might not be statistically independent. The resulting neighborhood correlation invalidates important theoretical assumptions of nonlinear regression analysis. As a consequence, certain goodness-of-fit criteria, such as the runs-of-signs test and the autocorrelation function, might indicate a systematic lack of fit even if the experiment does agree very well with the underlying theoretical model. A solution to this problem is to analyze only a subset of the residuals of fit, such that any excessive neighborhood correlation is eliminated. Substrate kinetics of the HIV protease and the unfolding kinetics of UMP/CMP kinase, a globular protein from Dictyostelium discoideum, serve as two illustrative examples. A suitable data-reduction algorithm has been incorporated into software DYNAFIT [P. Kuzmic, Anal. Biochem. 237 (1996) 260-273], freely available to all academic researchers from http://www.biokin.com.

Kuwayama, H. and Y. Kubohara (2009). "Differentiation-inducing factor-1 and -2 function also as modulators for Dictyostelium chemotaxis." PLoS One 4(8): e6658.
	BACKGROUND: In the early stages of development of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum, chemotaxis toward cAMP plays a pivotal role in organizing discrete cells into a multicellular structure. In this process, a series of signaling molecules, such as G-protein-coupled cell surface receptors for cAMP, phosphatidylinositol metabolites, and cyclic nucleotides, function as the signal transducers for controlling dynamics of cytoskeleton. Differentiation-inducing factor-1 and -2 (DIF-1 and DIF-2) were originally identified as the factors (chlorinated alkylphenones) that induce Dictyostelium stalk cell differentiation, but it remained unknown whether the DIFs had any other physiologic functions. METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: To further elucidate the functions of DIFs, in the present study we investigated their effects on chemotaxis under various conditions. Quite interestingly, in shallow cAMP gradients, DIF-1 suppressed chemotaxis whereas DIF-2 promoted it greatly. Analyses with various mutants revealed that DIF-1 may inhibit chemotaxis, at least in part, via GbpB (a phosphodiesterase) and a decrease in the intracellular cGMP concentration ([cGMP](i)). DIF-2, by contrast, may enhance chemotaxis, at least in part, via RegA (another phosphodiesterase) and an increase in [cGMP](i). Using null mutants for DimA and DimB, the transcription factors that are required for DIF-dependent prestalk differentiation, we also showed that the mechanisms for the modulation of chemotaxis by DIFs differ from those for the induction of cell differentiation by DIFs, at least in part. CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: Our findings indicate that DIF-1 and DIF-2 function as negative and positive modulators for Dictyostelium chemotaxis, respectively. To our knowledge, this is the first report in any organism of physiologic modulators (small molecules) for chemotaxis having differentiation-inducing activity.

Kriebel, P. W. and C. A. Parent (2009). "Group migration and signal relay in Dictyostelium." Meth Mol Biol 571: 111-124.
	The ability of cells to migrate directionally in gradients of chemoattractant is a fundamental biological response that is essential for the survival of the social amoebae Dictyostelium discoideum. In Dictyostelium, cAMP is the most potent chemoattractant and the detection, synthesis, and degradation of cAMP is exquisitely regulated. Interestingly, as Dictyostelium cells migrate directionally, they do so in a head-to-tail fashion, forming characteristic streams. This group behavior is acquired through the relay of the cAMP signals to neighboring cells. This chapter describes experimental procedures used to obtain synchronized populations of chemotactically competent cells and to assess their streaming behavior. In addition, we provide a detailed account of the method used to measure the ability of chemoattractants to directly stimulate adenylyl cyclase activity. Together, these techniques provide a way to combine cell biological and biochemical approaches to the study of signal relay.

Kriebel, P. W. (2009). Vesicle trafficking and protein synthesis, target adenylyl cyclase A to the back of migrating cells, localizing the release of chemoattractant to the trailing edge. United States -- District of Columbia, The George Washington University.
	Adenylyl cyclases and their product, 3'-5'-cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP), are critical signaling molecules fundamental to many signaling pathways found throughout eukaryotes and mammals. This importance arises from the ability to not only transduce signals from receptors to downstream effectors but also to amplify the initial signaling response. In Dictyostelium, the binding of the chemoattractant cAMP to its G protein coupled receptor activates a variety of effectors including the adenylyl cyclase A (ACA). We demonstrate using the gene fusion product ACA-YFP (ACA and yellow fluorescent protein) that ACA is enriched at the back of chemotaxing cells and propose that this enrichment provides a compartment from which cAMP is released, relaying the chemotactic signal to neighboring cells and allowing the cells to align head-to-tail, forming streams during chemotaxis. Interestingly, we find that this enrichment of ACA is composed of many smaller vesicles containing ACA and that ACA containing vesicles are observed rapidly moving throughout the cell. We investigated the role of ACA vesicle trafficking in the enrichment of ACA at the back of cells. Using Fluorescence Recovery After Photobleaching (FRAP), we find that vesicle delivery of ACA-YFP to the plasma membrane is required for the asymmetric enrichment of ACA at the back of cells. When actin fibers and microtubules are disrupted with latrunculin A or nocodazole, respectively, ACA vesicle trafficking is strongly inhibited resulting in the loss of ACA enrichment at the back of cells. We find that ACA vesicles co-localize with microtubules and that nocodazole-treated cells have streaming defects. Together, these findings suggest that vesicle trafficking is required for cAMP release. Intriguingly, we also observe that migrating cells leave behind trails containing ACA. Since migrating cells maintain a polarized distribution of ACA, we reason that ACA must be replenished by protein synthesis to maintain its asymmetric distribution. To investigate this, we completely bleached migrating ACA-YFP expressing cells and monitored the fluorescence recovery over time. We observe a 40% recovery within 7 minutes, presumably due to protein synthesis. Indeed, we find that cycloheximide treatment reduces ACA levels, abolishes its enrichment specifically at the back of migrating cells and prevents streaming. Our findings provide a novel model to explain group cell migration, where vesicles containing de novo enzymes involved in the synthesis of chemoattractants are delivered to the back of migrating cells, thereby creating a compartment from which chemoattractants are specifically released. We propose that similar methods of enzyme compartmentalization exist in mammalian cells allowing for cells to migrate collectively to sites of inflammation, to metastasize to new tissues and to form neural networks.

Kourtis, N. and N. Tavernarakis (2009). "Autophagy and cell death in model organisms." Cell Death Differ 16(1): 21-30.
	Autophagy evolved in unicellular eukaryotes as a means for surviving nutrient stress. During the course of evolution, as multicellular organisms developed specialized cell types and complex intracellular signalling networks, autophagy has been summoned to serve additional cellular functions. Numerous recent studies indicate that apart from its pro-survival role under nutrient limitation, autophagy also participates in cell death. However, the precise role of this catabolic process in dying cells is not fully understood. Although in certain situations autophagy has a protective function, in other types of cell death it actually contributes to cellular destruction. Simple model organisms ranging from the unicellular Saccharomyces cerevisiae to the soil amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum and the metazoans Caenorhabditis elegans and Drosophila melanogaster provide clearly defined cell death paradigms that can be used to dissect the involvement of autophagy in cell death, at the molecular level. In this review, we survey current research in simple organisms, linking autophagy to cell death and discuss the complex interplay between autophagy, cell survival and cell death.

Konotop, G., et al. (2009). Possible components of the signalling cascade between endosomes and the cytoskeleton in Dictyostelium discoideum. Eur J Cell Biol, Konstanz.
	A novel class of lysozymes was recently identified in
D. discoideum. The knock-out of its main member, AlyA,
leads to increased phagocytic rates without affecting
macropinocytosis. The esterase Gp70 was found to be upregulated
in the AlyA-null cells, and over-expression of
Gp70 in wild type cells (AX2) leads to the same phenotype
as AlyA knock-out. These results raised the idea of a
signalling pathway between reduced lysozyme levels,
elevated Gp70 content, and increased phagocytosis. A
cDNA-microarray analysis on both mutants revealed a
series of genes up-regulated in AlyA-null cells, but not in
Gp70 over-expressing cells, as well as eight equally 
down-regulated genes in both strains. These genes seem
to be possible candidates for the signalling cascade from
phagosomes to the cytoskeletal machinery. Our current
data shows the involvement of SSE346, SSJ758 and
SLB350 in the signalling cascade between Gp70 and
increased particle internalization. Interestingly, the knockout
of these proteins led to divergent phenotypes. The
SSE346-KO strains are characterized by increased
phagocytic rates as well as enlarged plaques on bacterial
lawns, when compared to the wild type. SSJ758-KO leads
to enlarged plaques but exhibit normal phagocytosis. On
the contrary, SLB350-KO show increased phagocytosis
but no variation in plaque size. We are currently analysing
other candidates in order to understand the succession of
events linking the lysosomal defect with the cytoskeletal
adaptation.

King, J. S., et al. (2009). "The mood stabiliser lithium suppresses PIP3 signalling in Dictyostelium and human cells." Dis Model Mech 2(5-6): 306-312.
	Bipolar mood disorder (manic depression) is a major psychiatric disorder whose molecular origins are unknown. Mood stabilisers offer patients both acute and prophylactic treatment, and experimentally, they provide a means to probe the underlying biology of the disorder. Lithium and other mood stabilisers deplete intracellular inositol and it has been proposed that bipolar mood disorder arises from aberrant inositol (1,4,5)-trisphosphate [IP(3), also known as Ins(1,4,5)P(3)] signalling. However, there is no definitive evidence to support this or any other proposed target; a problem exacerbated by a lack of good cellular models. Phosphatidylinositol (3,4,5)-trisphosphate [PIP(3), also known as PtdIns(3,4,5)P(3)] is a prominent intracellular signal molecule within the central nervous system (CNS) that regulates neuronal survival, connectivity and synaptic function. By using the genetically tractable organism Dictyostelium, we show that lithium suppresses PIP(3)-mediated signalling. These effects extend to the human neutrophil cell line HL60. Mechanistically, we show that lithium attenuates phosphoinositide synthesis and that its effects can be reversed by overexpression of inositol monophosphatase (IMPase), consistent with the inositol-depletion hypothesis. These results demonstrate a lithium target that is compatible with our current knowledge of the genetic predisposition for bipolar disorder. They also suggest that lithium therapy might be beneficial for other diseases caused by elevated PIP(3) signalling.

King, J. S. and R. H. Insall (2009). "Chemotaxis: finding the way forward with Dictyostelium." Trends Cell Biol 19(10): 523-530.
	Understanding cell migration is centrally important to modern cell biology. However, despite years of study, progress has been hindered by experimental limitations and the complexity of the process. This has led to the popularity of Dictyostelium discoideum, with its experimentally-friendly lifestyle and small, haploid genome, as a tool to dissect the pathways involved in migration. This humble amoeba is now established at the centre of dramatic changes in our understanding of cell movement. In this review we describe the recent reinterpretation of the role of phosphatidylinositol trisphosphate (PIP(3)) and other intracellular messengers that connect signalling and migration, and the transition to models of chemotaxis driven by multiple, intertwined signalling pathways. In shallow gradients, pseudopods are generated with random directions, and we discuss how chemotaxis can operate by biasing this process. Overall we describe how Dictyostelium has the potential to unlock many fundamental questions in the cell motility field.

Kim, D. H., et al. (2009). "Autophagy contributes to degradation of Hirano bodies." Autophagy 5(1): 44-51.
	Hirano bodies are actin-rich inclusions reported most frequently in the hippocampus in association with a variety of conditions including neurodegenerative diseases, and aging. We have developed a model system for formation of Hirano bodies in Dictyostelium and cultured mammalian cells to permit detailed studies of the dynamics of these structures in living cells. Model Hirano bodies are frequently observed in membrane-enclosed vesicles in mammalian cells consistent with a role of autophagy in the degradation of these structures. Clearance of Hirano bodies by an exocytotic process is supported by images from electron microscopy showing extracellular release of Hirano bodies, and observation of Hirano bodies in the culture medium of Dictyostelium and mammalian cells. An autophagosome marker protein Atg8-GFP, was co-localized with model Hirano bodies in wild type Dictyostelium cells, but not in atg5(-) or atg1-1 autophagy mutant strains. Induction of model Hirano bodies in Dictyostelium with a high level expression of 34 kDa DeltaEF1 from the inducible discoidin promoter resulted in larger Hirano bodies and a cessation of cell doubling. The degradation of model Hirano bodies still occurred rapidly in autophagy mutant (atg5(-)) Dictyostelium, suggesting that other mechanisms such as the ubiquitin-mediated proteasome pathway could contribute to the degradation of Hirano bodies. Chemical inhibition of the proteasome pathway with lactacystin, significantly decreased the turnover of Hirano bodies in Dictyostelium providing direct evidence that autophagy and the proteasome can both contribute to degradation of Hirano bodies. Short term treatment of mammalian cells with either lactacystin or 3-methyl adenine results in higher levels of Hirano bodies and a lower level of viable cells in the cultures, supporting the conclusion that both autophagy and the proteasome contribute to degradation of Hirano bodies.

Kihara, K., et al. (2009). "Global/temporal gene expression analysis of Escherichia coli in the early stages of symbiotic relationship development with the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Biosystems 96(2): 141-164.
	Escherichia coli and the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum form stable viscous symbiotic colonies in the laboratory. To examine changes in E. coli gene expression during establishment of this symbiotic relationship, cells of symbiotic co-cultures and monocultures at various time points were subjected to microarrays analysis. Genes changed significantly over time compared to the initial gene expression level were determined as characteristics of GO function categories. The categories that appeared significantly at the same sampling time points between the two cultures were also identified. Up-regulation of genes from several GO categories associated with polysaccharide synthesis, cell wall degradation, and iron acquisition as well as down-regulation of genes from GO categories associated with biosynthesis through starvation response were observed in co-cultures, indicating exchange of molecules between the two organisms. Up-regulation of genes from several GO categories associated with anaerobic respiration and flagella biosynthesis were also observed, indicating that the environment inside symbiotic colonies was similar to that in developed biofilms. Up-regulation of genes associated with energy-generating systems indicated that E. coli prolonged survival within the symbiotic colony. Thus, E. coli showed not only molecule exchange but also altered expression of various genes in symbiosis with D. discoideum.

Khare, A., et al. (2009). "Cheater-resistance is not futile." Nature 461(7266): 980-982.
	Cooperative social systems are susceptible to cheating by individuals that reap the benefits of cooperation without incurring the costs(1). There are various theoretical mechanisms for the repression of cheating(2) and many have been tested experimentally. One possibility that has not been tested rigorously is the evolution of mutations that confer resistance to cheating. Here we show that the presence of a cheater in a population of randomly mutated social amoebae can select for cheater-resistance. Furthermore, we show that this cheater-resistance can be a noble strategy because the resister strain does not necessarily exploit other strains. Thus, the evolution of resisters may be instrumental in preserving cooperative behaviour in the face of cheating.

Kay, R. R. and C. R. L. Thompson (2009). "Forming patterns in development without morphogen gradients: scattered differentiation and sorting out." CSH Persp. Biol.
	 Few mechanisms provide alternatives to morphogen gradients for producing spatial patterns of cells in development. One possibility is based on the sorting out of cells that initially differentiate in a salt and pepper mixture and then physically move to create coherent tissues. Here, we describe the evidence suggesting this is the major mode of patterning in Dictyostelium. In addition, we discuss whether convergent evolution could have produced a conceptually similar mechanism in other organisms. 

Kawabe, Y., et al. (2009). "Activated cAMP receptors switch encystation into sporulation." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 106(17): 7089-7094.
	Metazoan embryogenesis is controlled by a limited number of signaling modules that are used repetitively at successive developmental stages. The development of social amoebas shows similar reiterated use of cAMP-mediated signaling. In the model Dictyostelium discoideum, secreted cAMP acting on 4 cAMP receptors (cARs1-4) coordinates cell movement during aggregation and fruiting body formation, and induces the expression of aggregation and sporulation genes at consecutive developmental stages. To identify hierarchy in the multiple roles of cAMP, we investigated cAR heterogeneity and function across the social amoeba phylogeny. The gene duplications that yielded cARs 2-4 occurred late in evolution. Many species have only a cAR1 ortholog that duplicated independently in the Polysphondylids and Acytostelids. Disruption of both cAR genes of Polysphondylium pallidum (Ppal) did not affect aggregation, but caused complete collapse of fruiting body morphogenesis. The stunted structures contained disorganized stalk cells, which supported a mass of cysts instead of spores; cAMP triggered spore gene expression in Ppal, but not in the cAR null mutant, explaining its sporulation defect. Encystation is the survival strategy of solitary amoebas, and lower taxa, like Ppal, can still encyst as single cells. Recent findings showed that intracellular cAMP accumulation suffices to trigger encystation, whereas it is a complementary requirement for sporulation. Combined, the data suggest that cAMP signaling in social amoebas evolved from cAMP-mediated encystation in solitary amoebas; cAMP secretion in aggregates prompted the starving cells to form spores and not cysts, and additionally organized fruiting body morphogenesis. cAMP-mediated aggregation was the most recent innovation.

Kastner, P., et al. (2009). Characterization of NDR kinases in Dictyostelium discoideum. Eur J Cell Biol, Konstanz.
	NDR (nuclear Dbf2-related) kinases are a subgroup of the
AGC class of protein kinases. The genome of
Dictyostelium discoideum encodes four NDR group
kinases, NdrA, B, C and D, and three potential NDR
activators, MobA, B and C. In Schizosaccharomyces
pombe the NDR kinase Sid2 is part of the septation
initiation network (SIN), which is essential for the final
stages of cytokinesis. We recently found a SIN-related
pathway to be involved in the regulation of cytokinesis in
D. discoideum. Upstream components of this pathway
include a polo-like kinase (PLK), a GAP (Bub2), a GTPase
(Spg1), and a Ser/Thr-kinase (SepA) homologous to the
SIN-kinase Cdc7. The effectors downstream of SepA are
not specified yet, but may include members of the Ste20-
like and NDR group of kinases. Therefore, we started to
explore the D. discoideum NDR kinases in order to test
their potential involvement in cytokinesis.
NdrA and NdrB were shown to localize to centrosomes.
NdrA-null cells have defects in growth and phagocytosis,
but cytokinesis is unaffected. By immunoprecipitation and
tandem affinity purification MobB was found to interact
with NdrB. Knockout mutants lacking NdrC are
multinucleated indicating an involvement of NdrC in
cytokinesis. Our data suggest that NdrC may be a
component downstream of SepA which was shown to
regulate cleavage furrow formation in a SIN-related
pathway of D. discoideum.

Kamimura, Y., et al. (2009). "Assays for Chemotaxis and Chemoattractant-Stimulated TorC2 Activation and PKB Substrate Phosphorylation in Dictyostelium." Meth Mol Biol 571: 255-270.
	Chemotaxis is a highly coordinated biological system where chemoattractants trigger multiple signal transduction pathways which act in concert to bring about directed migration. A signaling pathway acting through PIP(3), which accumulates at the leading edge of the cell, has been extensively characterized. However, chemotaxis still remains in cells depleted of PIP(3), suggesting there are PIP(3)-independent pathways. We have identified a pathway involving TorC2-PKBR1 as well as another containing PLA2 activity that act in parallel with PIP(3). Activation of PKBR1, a myristoylated Protein Kinase B homolog, is dependent on TorC2 (Rapamycin-insensitive Tor complex 2) kinase but is completely independent of PIP(3). In response to chemoattractant, PKBs rapidly phosphorylate at least eight proteins, including Talin B, PI4P 5-kinase, two RasGefs, and a RhoGap. These studies help to link the signaling pathways to specific effectors and provide a more complete understanding of chemotaxis.

Jung, G., et al. (2009). "The Dictyostelium type V myosin MyoJ is responsible for the cortical association and motility of contractile vacuole membranes." J Cell Biol 186(4): 555-570.
	The contractile vacuole (CV) complex in Dictyostelium is a tubulovesicular osmoregulatory organelle that exhibits extensive motility along the actin-rich cortex, providing a useful model for investigating myosin-dependent membrane transport. Here, we show that the type V myosin myoJ localizes to CV membranes and is required for efficient osmoregulation, the normal accumulation of CV membranes in the cortex, and the conversion of collapsed bladder membranes into outwardly radiating cortical CV tubules. Complementation of myoJ-null cells with a version of myoJ containing a shorter lever arm causes these radiating tubules to move at a slower speed, confirming myoJ's role in translocating CV membranes along the cortex. MyoJ-null cells also exhibit a dramatic concentration of CV membranes around the microtubule-organizing center. Consistently, we demonstrate that CV membranes also move bi-directionally on microtubules between the cortex and the centrosome. Therefore, myoJ cooperates with plus and minus end-directed microtubule motors to drive the normal distribution and dynamics of the CV complex in DICTYOSTELIUM: Class Descriptors: NAL: 442.8 J828

Jin, T., et al. (2009). "How human leukocytes track down and destroy pathogens: lessons learned from the model organism Dictyostelium discoideum." Immunol Res 43(1-3): 118-127.
	Human leukocytes, including macrophages and neutrophils, are phagocytic immune cells that capture and engulf pathogens and subsequently destroy them in intracellular vesicles. To accomplish this vital task, these leukocytes utilize two basic cell behaviors-chemotaxis for chasing down infectious pathogens and phagocytosis for destroying them. The molecular mechanisms controlling these behaviors are not well understood for immune cells. Interestingly, a soil amoeba, Dictyostelium discoideum, uses these same behaviors to pursue and injest its bacterial food source and to organize its multi-cellular development. Consequently, studies of this model system have provided and will continue to provide us with mechanistic insights into the chemotaxis and phagocytosis of immune cells. Here, we review recent research in these areas that have been conducted in the Chemotaxis Signal Section of NIAID's Laboratory of Immunogenetics.

Jia, K., et al. (2009). "Autophagy genes protect against Salmonella typhimurium infection and mediate insulin signaling-regulated pathogen resistance." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 106(34): 14564-14569.
	A conserved insulin-like pathway modulates both aging and pathogen resistance in Caenorhabditis elegans. However, the specific innate effector functions that mediate this pathogen resistance are largely unknown. Autophagy, a lysosomal degradation pathway, plays a role in controlling intracellular bacterial pathogen infections in cultured cells, but less is known about its role at the organismal level. We examined the effects of autophagy gene inactivation on Salmonella enterica Serovar Typhimurium (Salmonella typhimurium) infection in 2 model organisms, Caenorhabditis elegans and Dictyostelium discoideum. In both organisms, genetic inactivation of the autophagy pathway increases bacterial intracellular replication, decreases animal lifespan, and results in apoptotic-independent death. In C. elegans, genetic knockdown of autophagy genes abrogates pathogen resistance conferred by a loss-of-function mutation, daf-2(e1370), in the insulin-like tyrosine kinase receptor or by over-expression of the DAF-16 FOXO transcription factor. Thus, autophagy genes play an essential role in host defense in vivo against an intracellular bacterial pathogen and mediate pathogen resistance in long-lived mutant nematodes. Class Descriptors: NAL: 500 N21P

Jeon, T. J., et al. (2009). "Regulation of Dictyostelium morphogenesis by RapGAP3." Dev Biol 328(2): 210-220.
	Rap1 is a key regulator of cell adhesion and cell motility in Dictyostelium. Here, we identify a Rap1-specific GAP protein (RapGAP3) and provide evidence that Rap1 signaling regulates cell-cell adhesion and cell migration within the multicellular organism. RapGAP3 mediates the deactivation of Rap1 at the late mound stage of development and plays an important role in regulating cell sorting during apical tip formation, when the anterior-posterior axis of the organism is formed, by controlling cell-cell adhesion and cell migration. The loss of RapGAP3 results in a severely altered morphogenesis of the multicellular organism at the late mound stage. Direct measurement of cell motility within the mound shows that rapGAP3(-) cells have a reduced speed of movement and, compared to wild-type cells, have a reduced motility towards the apex. rapGAP3(-) cells exhibit some increased EDTA/EGTA sensitive cell-cell adhesion at the late mound stage. RapGAP3 transiently and rapidly translocates to the cell cortex in response to chemoattractant stimulation, which is dependent on F-actin polymerization. We suggest that the altered morphogenesis and the cell-sorting defect of rapGAP3(-) cells may result in reduced directional movement of the mutant cells to the apex of the mound.

Jang, W., et al. (2009). "A cell number counting factor alters cell metabolism." Commun Integr Biol 2(4): 293-297.
	It is still not clear how organisms regulate the size of appendages or organs during development. During development, Dictyostelium discoideum cells form groups of approximately 2 x 10(4) cells. The cells secrete a protein complex called counting factor (CF) that allows them to sense the local cell density. If there are too many cells in a group, as indicated by high extracellular concentrations of CF, the cells break up the group by decreasing cell-cell adhesion and increasing random cell motility. As a part of the signal transduction pathway, CF decreases the activity of glucose-6-phosphatase to decrease internal glucose levels. CF also decreases the levels of fructose-1,6-bisphosphate and increases the levels of glucose-6-phosphate and fructose-6-phosphate. In this report, we focus on how a secreted signal used to regulate the size of a group of cells regulates many basic aspects of cell metabolism, including the levels of pyruvate, lactate, and ATP, and oxygen consumption.

Iwadate, Y. and S. Yumura (2009). "Cyclic stretch of the substratum using a shape-memory alloy induces directional migration in Dictyostelium cells." Biotechniques 47(3): 757-767.
	Living cells are constantly subjected to various mechanical stimulations. They must sense the mechanical aspects of their environment and respond appropriately for proper cell function. In general, cells adhere to substrata. Thus, the cells must receive and respond to mechanical stimuli mainly from the substrata. For example, migrating cells can create their own polarity and migrate in a certain direction even in the absence of any attractive substance. In order to generate such polarity, cells must sense mechanical stimuli from the substrata and transduce these stimuli into intracellular signals. To investigate the relationship between signals derived from mechanical stimuli and related cell functions, one of the most commonly used techniques is the application of mechanical stimuli via stretching of elastic substrata. Here, we developed a new stretching device using a shape-memory alloy (SMA). An SMA has three advantages as an actuator of stretching devices: (i) the cost of the SMA required for the device is inexpensive, approximately 30 USD, (ii) the size of an SMA is very small (0.62 mm in diameter and 22 mm in length), and (iii) an SMA does not generate any vibrating noise, which can negatively affect cells. In response to the cyclic stretching by the new stretching device, Dictyostelium discoideum cells migrated perpendicular to the stretching direction and the migrating speed increased significantly. To our knowledge, this is the first report indicating that migrating cells can create their own polarity by the mechanical stimuli from the substrata.

Ito, K., et al. (2009). "Unique charge distribution in surface loops confers high velocity on the fast motor protein Chara myosin." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 106(51): 21585-21590.
	Most myosins have a positively charged loop 2 with a cluster of lysine residues that bind to the negatively charged N-terminal segment of actin. However, the net charge of loop 2 of very fast Chara myosin is zero and there is no lysine cluster in it. In contrast, Chara myosin has a highly positively charged loop 3. To elucidate the role of these unique surface loops of Chara myosin in its high velocity and high actin-activated ATPase activity, we have undertaken mutational analysis using recombinant Chara myosin motor domain. It was found that net positive charge in loop 3 affected V(max) and K(app) of actin activated ATPase activity, while it affected the velocity only slightly. The net positive charge in loop 2 affected K(app) and the velocity, although it did not affect V(max). Our results suggested that Chara myosin has evolved to have highly positively charged loop 3 for its high ATPase activity and have less positively charged loop 2 for its high velocity. Since high positive charge in loop 3 and low positive charge in loop 2 seem to be one of the reasons for Chara myosin's high velocity, we manipulated charge contents in loops 2 and 3 of Dictyostelium myosin (class II). Removing positive charge from loop 2 and adding positive charge to loop 3 of Dictyostelium myosin made its velocity higher than that of the wild type, suggesting that the charge strategy in loops 2 and 3 is widely applicable.

Ishii, K., et al. (2009). "Novel functions of ribosomal protein S6 in growth and differentiation of Dictyostelium cells." Devel Growth Differ 51(6): 533-546.
	We have previously shown that in Dictyostelium cells a 32 kDa protein is rapidly and completely dephosphorylated in response to starvation that is essential for the initiation of differentiation ( Akiyama & Maeda 1992 ). In the present work, this phosphoprotein was identified as a homologue (Dd-RPS6) of ribosomal protein S6 (RPS6) that is an essential member for protein synthesis. As expected, Dd-RPS6 seems to be absolutely required for cell survival, because we failed to obtain antisense-RNA mediated cells as well as Dd-rps6-null cells by homologous recombination in spite of many trials. In many kinds of cell lines, RPS6 is known to be located in the nucleus and cytosol, but Dd-RPS6 is predominantly located in the cell cortex with cytoskeletons, and in the contractile ring of just-dividing cells. In this connection, the overexpression of Dd-RPS6 greatly impairs cytokinesis during axenic shake-cultures in growth medium, resulting in the formation of multinucleate cells. Much severe impairment of cytokinesis was observed when Dd-RPS6-overexpressing cells (Dd-RPS6OE cells) were incubated on a living Escherichia coli lawn. The initiation of differentiation triggered by starvation was also delayed in Dd-RPS6OE cells. In addition, Dd-RPS6OE cells exhibit defective differentiation into prespore cells and spores during late development. Thus, it is likely that the proper expression of Dd-RPS6 may be of importance for the normal progression of late differentiation as well as for the initiation of differentiation. Class Descriptors: NAL: QL951.E4

Isberg, R. R., et al. (2009). "The Legionella pneumophila replication vacuole: making a cosy niche inside host cells." Nature Rev Microbiol 7(1): 12-24.
	The pathogenesis of Legionella pneumophila is derived from its growth within lung macrophages after aerosols are inhaled from contaminated water sources. Interest in this bacterium stems from its ability to manipulate host cell vesicular-trafficking pathways and establish a membrane-bound replication vacuole, making it a model for intravacuolar pathogens. Establishment of the replication compartment requires a specialized translocation system that transports a large cadre of protein substrates across the vacuolar membrane. These substrates regulate vesicle traffic and survival pathways in the host cell. This Review focuses on the strategies that L. pneumophila uses to establish intracellular growth and evaluates why this microorganism has accumulated an unprecedented number of translocated substrates that are targeted at host cells.

Iglesias, P. A. (2009). "Spatial regulation of PI3K signaling during chemotaxis." Wiley Interdiscip Rev Syst Biol Med 1(2): 247-253.
	Phosphoinositide 3-kinases (PI3Ks) are a family of lipid kinases that phosphorylate the 3' OH position of the inositol ring of phosphoinositides on the inner leaf of the plasma membrane. Receptor-mediated activation of the PI3K pathway plays a crucial role in numerous signaling pathways and regulates a number of critical cellular processes, including growth, differentiation, survival and directed migration. In this focus article, we review the temporal and spatial regulation of PI3K in chemotaxing cells with particular emphasis on the amoeba Dictyostelium as well as neutrophils. We also briefly discuss one model used to elucidate the PI3K pathway.

Hwang, R. D., et al. (2009). "ReAsH: another viable option for in vivo protein labelling in Dictyostelium." J Microsc 234(1): 9-15.
	Biarsenical-tetracysteine fluorescent protein tagging has been effectively used in a variety of cell types. It has the advantage of requiring a much smaller peptide alteration to existing proteins than fusion to green fluorescent protein (GFP) or monomeric red fluorescent protein (mRFP). However, there are no reports of the tetracysteine tagging system being used in Dictyostelium. In order to establish this tagging system in Dictyostelium, the filamin gene (FLN) was modified to express a C-terminal tetracysteine sequence and then transfected into cells. After addition of either FlAsH-EDT(2) or ReAsH-EDT(2), the fluorescence intensity of cells increased in a time-dependent manner and reached a plateau after 3 h of incubation. ReAsH had a much stronger and more specifically localized fluorescent signal compared with FlAsH. After removal of the ReAsH-EDT(2) reagent, the fluorescence signal remained detectable for at least 24 h. The localization of filamin labelled by ReAsH was similar to that of an FLN-mRFP fusion protein, but the fluorescence signal from the ReAsH-labelled protein was stronger. Our findings suggest that the ReAsH-tetracysteine tagging system can be a useful alternative for in vivo protein tagging in Dictyostelium.

Huber, R. and D. H. O'Day (2009). "An EGF-like peptide sequence from Dictyostelium enhances cell motility and chemotaxis." Biochem Biophys Res Commun 379(2): 470-475.
	Dictyostelium discoideum possesses more EGF-like (EGFL) domains than any other sequenced eukaryote. Here we show that a synthetic EGFL peptide (DdEGFL1) based upon an amino acid sequence from a cysteine-rich Dictyostelium protein, functions extracellularly to enhance random cell motility and cAMP-mediated chemotaxis in Dictyostelium by 625% and 85%, respectively, in strain NC4 and by 620% and 80% in strain AX3. Quinacrine inhibited peptide-enhanced random motility but not chemotaxis in strain AX3 providing evidence that PLA2 is the predominant regulator of this process. While LY294002 alone had no significant effect on either event, in combination with quinacrine it dramatically inhibited both processes suggesting that both PI3K and PLA2-mediated signaling are required for EGFL peptide-enhanced cell movement. DdEGFL1 also sustained the threonine phosphorylation of a 210kDa protein that is dephosphorylated during Dictyostelium starvation. Taken together, these results suggest an important role for certain EGFL peptides in Dictyostelium cell movement.

Hsu, S. T., et al. (2009). "Structure, Dynamics and Folding of an Immunoglobulin Domain of the Gelation Factor (ABP-120) from Dictyostelium discoideum." J Mol Biol 388(4): 865-879.
	We have carried out a detailed structural and dynamical characterisation of the isolated fifth repeat of the gelation factor (ABP-120) from Dictyostelium discoideum (ddFLN5) by NMR spectroscopy to provide a basis for studies of co-translational folding on the ribosome of this immunoglobulin-like domain. The isolated ddFLN5 can fold autonomously in solution into a structure that resembles very closely the crystal structure of the domain in a construct in which the adjacent sixth repeat (ddFLN6) is covalently linked to its C-terminus in tandem but deviates locally from a second crystal structure in which ddFLN5 is flanked by ddFLN4 and ddFLN6 at both N- and C-termini. Conformational fluctuations were observed via (15)N relaxation methods and are primarily localised in the interstrand loops that encompass the C-terminal hemisphere. These fluctuations are distinct in location from the region where line broadening is observed in ddFLN5 when attached to the ribosome as part of a nascent chain. This observation supports the conclusion that the broadening is associated with interactions with the ribosome surface [Hsu, S. T. D., Fucini, P., Cabrita, L. D., Launay, H., Dobson, C. M. & Christodoulou, J. (2007). Structure and dynamics of a ribosome-bound nascent chain by NMR spectroscopy. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA, 104, 16516-16521]. The unfolding of ddFLN5 induced by high concentrations of urea shows a low population of a folding intermediate, as inferred from an intensity-based analysis, a finding that differs from that of ddFLN5 as a ribosome-bound nascent chain. These results suggest that interesting differences in detail may exist between the structure of the domain in isolation and when linked to the ribosome and between protein folding in vitro and the folding of a nascent chain as it emerges from the ribosome.

Hsu, S. T., et al. (2009). "1H, 15N and 13C assignments of domain 5 of Dictyostelium discoideum gelation factor (ABP-120) in its native and 8M urea-denatured states." Biomol NMR Assign 3(1): 29-31.
	The gelation factor from Dictyostelium discoideum (ABP-120) is an actin binding protein consisting of six immunoglobulin (Ig) domains in the C-terminal rod domain. We have recently used the pair of domains 5 and 6 of ABP-120 as a model system for studying multi-domain nascent chain folding on the ribosome. Here we present the NMR assignments of domain 5 in its native and 8M urea-denatured states.

Honma, S., et al. (2009). "A reduction of epidermal growth factor receptor is involved in brefelamide-induced inhibition of phosphorylation of ERK in human astrocytoma cells." Eur J Pharmacol 616(1-3): 38-42.
	Brefelamide is an aromatic amide isolated from Dictyostelium cellular slime molds. We found that brefelamide has a potent inhibitory growth effect measured by MTT assay in 1321N1 human astrocytoma cells. The inhibition was associated with reduced phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK). Brefelamide inhibited epidermal growth factor (EGF)-induced phosphorylation of ERK in a concentration-dependent manner. Furthermore, brefelamide diminished EGF-induced phosphorylation of EGF receptor at Tyr(1068), a Grb2 binding site that leads to an activation of the Ras/Raf/ERK system. Brefelamide also reduced the expression level of the EGF receptor. These results suggest that one of the mechanisms of action of brefelamide is assumed to be inhibition of phosphorylation of ERK through a reduction of EGF receptor activity in 1321N1 human astrocytoma cells.

Hillen, T. and K. J. Painter (2009). "A user's guide to PDE models for chemotaxis." J Math Biol 58(1-2): 183-217.
	Mathematical modelling of chemotaxis (the movement of biological cells or organisms in response to chemical gradients) has developed into a large and diverse discipline, whose aspects include its mechanistic basis, the modelling of specific systems and the mathematical behaviour of the underlying equations. The Keller-Segel model of chemotaxis (Keller and Segel in J Theor Biol 26:399-415, 1970; 30:225-234, 1971) has provided a cornerstone for much of this work, its success being a consequence of its intuitive simplicity, analytical tractability and capacity to replicate key behaviour of chemotactic populations. One such property, the ability to display "auto-aggregation", has led to its prominence as a mechanism for self-organisation of biological systems. This phenomenon has been shown to lead to finite-time blow-up under certain formulations of the model, and a large body of work has been devoted to determining when blow-up occurs or whether globally existing solutions exist. In this paper, we explore in detail a number of variations of the original Keller-Segel model. We review their formulation from a biological perspective, contrast their patterning properties, summarise key results on their analytical properties and classify their solution form. We conclude with a brief discussion and expand on some of the outstanding issues revealed as a result of this work.

Heise, N., et al. (2009). "Molecular analysis of a UDP-GlcNAc:polypeptide {alpha}-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase implicated in the initiation of mucin-type O-glycosylation in Trypanosoma cruzi." Glycobiology 19(8): 918-933.
	Trypanosoma cruzi, the causative agent of Chagas disease, is surrounded by a mucin coat that plays important functions in parasite survival/invasion and is extensively O-glycosylated by Golgi and cell surface glycosyltransferases. Addition of the first sugar, alpha-N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc) linked to Threonine (Thr), is catalyzed by a polypeptide alpha-GlcNAc-transferase (pp-alphaGlcNAcT) which is unstable to purification. Here, a comparison of the genomes of T. cruzi and Dictyostelium discoideum, an amoebazoan which also forms this linkage, identified two T. cruzi genes (TcOGNT1 and TcOGNT2) that might encode this activity. Though neither was able to complement the Dictyostelium gene, expression in the trypanosomatid Leishmania tarentolae resulted in elevated levels of UDP-[(3)H]GlcNAc:Thr-peptide GlcNAc-transferase activity and UDP-[(3)H]GlcNAc breakdown activity. The ectodomain of TcOGNT2 was expressed and the secreted protein found to retain both activities after extensive purification away from other proteins and the endogenous activity. Product analysis showed that (3)H was transferred as GlcNAc to a hydroxyamino acid, and breakdown was due to hydrolysis. Both activities were specific for UDP-GlcNAc relative to UDP-GalNAc, and were abolished by active site point mutations that inactivate a related Dictyostelium enzyme and distantly related animal pp-alphaGalNAcTs. The peptide preference and the alkaline pH optimum were indistinguishable from that of the native activity in T. cruzi microsomes. The results suggest that mucin-type O-glycosylation in T. cruzi is initiated by conserved members of CAZy family GT60, which is homologous to the GT27 family of animal pp-alphaGalNAcTs that initiate mucin-type O-glycosylation in animals.

Hanel, F., et al. (2009). Characterization of LC-FACS proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum. Eur J Cell Biol, Konstanz.
	Long-Chain-Fatty Acyl-CoA Synthetases (LC-FACS) catalyze the activation of fatty acids (FAs) consisting of 16 to 22 C-atoms by adding a Coenzyme A to the C1 atom of the FA. This activation is required for storage of FAs as triacylgylcerol or their degradation in the β-oxidation to provide energy for the cell. In Dictyostelium we have identified two LC-FACS proteins, LC-FACS 1 and LC-FACS 2 encoded by the genes fcsA and fcsB respectively. LC-FACS 1 is associated with the cytosolic side of the endosomal membrane for the first few minutes of endosome formation and remains bound to it until the endosomes are neutralised. Cells deficient in LC-FACS 1 that were constructed by homologous recombination and carry the disrupted fcsAgene show a decreased uptake of FAs from endosomes but no other conspicuous defect. LC-FACS 2 is a transmembrane protein which contains an N-terminal ER-targeting sequence. GFP fused to the C-terminus of LC-FACS 2 localizes in the ER whereas the LC-FACS 2 bearing an internal mycepitope is transported to peroxisomes. Mutants lacking LC-FACS 2 show wildtype-like uptake of FAs from endosomes but show reduced phagocytosis instead. To verify these results and to better understand the function of LC-FACS proteins in Dictyostelium further research will be done on the double mutant (fcsA-/fcsB-) and a fcsA-overexpressor strain in a fcsB--background.

Hagedorn, M., et al. (2009). "Infection by tubercular mycobacteria is spread by nonlytic ejection from their amoeba hosts." Science 323(5922): 1729-1733.
	To generate efficient vaccines and cures for Mycobacterium tuberculosis, we need a far better understanding of its modes of infection, persistence, and spreading. Host cell entry and the establishment of a replication niche are well understood, but little is known about how tubercular mycobacteria exit host cells and disseminate the infection. Using the social amoeba Dictyostelium as a genetically tractable host for pathogenic mycobacteria, we discovered that M. tuberculosis and M. marinum, but not M. avium, are ejected from the cell through an actin-based structure, the ejectosome. This conserved nonlytic spreading mechanism requires a cytoskeleton regulator from the host and an intact mycobacterial ESX-1 secretion system. This insight offers new directions for research into the spreading of tubercular mycobacteria infections in mammalian cells.

Gross, J. D. (2009). "Acidic Ca2+ stores, excitability and cell patterning in Dictyostelium discoideum." Euk Cell 8(5): 696-702.
	Dictyostelium discoideum is best known for its self-organising behaviour as seen in the striking wave patterns formed during cell-to-cell relay of chemotactic cyclic AMP signals, and in the stable division of the resulting aggregates into distinct anterior and posterior zones.

Glockner, G. and A. J. Heidel (2009). "Centromere sequence and dynamics in Dictyostelium discoideum." Nucl Acids Res 37(6): 1809-1816.
	Centromeres play a pivotal role in the life of a eukaryote cell, perform an essential and conserved function, but this has not led to a standard centromere structure. It remains currently unclear, how the centromeric function is achieved by widely differing structures. Since centromeres are often large and consist mainly of repetitive sequences they have only been analyzed in great detail in a handful of organisms. The genome of Dictyostelium discoideum, a valuable model organism, was described a few years ago but its centromere organization remained largely unclear. Using available sequence information we reconstructed the putative centromere organization in three of the six chromosomes of D. discoideum. They mainly consist of one type of transposons that is confined to centromeric regions. Centromeres are dynamic due to transposon integration, but an optimal centromere size seems to exist in D. discoideum. One centromere probably has expanded recently, whereas another underwent major rearrangements. In addition to insights into the centromere organization and dynamics of a protist eukaryote, this work also provides a starting point for the analysis of the evolution of centromere structures in social amoebas by comparative genomics.

Giusti, C., et al. (2009). "Necrotic cell death: From reversible mitochondrial uncoupling to irreversible lysosomal permeabilization." Exp Cell Res 315(1): 26-38.
	Dictyostelium atg1- mutant cells provide an experimentally and genetically favorable model to study necrotic cell death (NCD) with no interference from apoptosis or autophagy. In such cells subjected to starvation and cAMP, induction by the differentiation-inducing factor DIF or by classical uncouplers led within minutes to mitochondrial uncoupling, which causally initiated NCD. We now report that (1) in this model, NCD included a mitochondrial-lysosomal cascade of events, (2) mitochondrial uncoupling and therefore initial stages of death showed reversibility for a surprisingly long time, (3) subsequent lysosomal permeabilization could be demonstrated using Lysosensor blue, acridin orange, Texas red-dextran and cathepsin B substrate, (4) this lysosomal permeabilization was irreversible, and (5) the presence of the uncoupler was required to maintain mitochondrial lesions but also to induce lysosomal lesions, suggesting that signaling from mitochondria to lysosomes must be sustained by the continuous presence of the uncoupler. These results further characterized the NCD pathway in this priviledged model, contributed to a definition of NCD at the lysosomal level, and suggested that in mammalian NCD even late reversibility attempts by removal of the inducer may be of therapeutic interest.

Gilbert, O. M., et al. (2009). "Discovery of a large clonal patch of a social amoeba: implications for social evolution." Mol Ecol 18(6): 1273-1281.
	Studies of genetic population structures of clonally reproducing macro-organisms have revealed large areas where only one clone is found. These areas, referred to as clonal patches, have not been shown to occur in free-living microbes until now. In free-living microbes, high genetic diversity at local scales is usually maintained by high rates of dispersal. We report, however, a highly dense, 12-m clonal patch of the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum in a cattle pasture located in a Texas Gulf Coast prairie. We confirm the presence of only one clone by the analysis of 65 samples and amplification of 10 polymorphic microsatellite loci. Samplings of additional cattle pastures nearby showed higher clonal diversity, but with a density of D. discoideum isolates lower than in the clonal patch. These findings show that high rates of microbial dispersal do not always produce genetic diversity at local scales, contrary to the findings of previous studies. The existence of clonal patches may be particularly important for microbial social evolution.

Gerisch, G. (2009). "Imaging actin cytoskeleton dynamics in Dictyostelium chemotaxis." Meth Mol Biol 571: 385-400.
	This chapter will focus on responses that the chemoattractant cyclic AMP elicits in the motility system of Dictyostelium. These cells can be permanently transfected to express cytoskeleton-associated proteins tagged with fluorescent proteins. Multiple proteins that are distinguishable by the excitation and emission spectra of their tags can be simultaneously expressed. This makes it possible to relate the spatial and temporal patterns of their chemoattractant-induced translocation to each other in one cell by a single recording. Since actin polymerization in live cells progresses with velocities of about 3 mum/s, high image frequencies and short acquisition times in the millisecond range are required. Techniques of total internal reflection fluorescence (TIRF) and spinning-disc confocal microscopy provide appropriate temporal and spatial resolution for the analysis of actin dynamics.

Geberth, D. and M. T. Hutt (2009). "Predicting the distribution of spiral waves from cell properties in a developmental-path model of Dictyostelium pattern formation." PLoS Comput Biol 5(7): e1000422.
	The slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum is one of the model systems of biological pattern formation. One of the most successful answers to the challenge of establishing a spiral wave pattern in a colony of homogeneously distributed D. discoideum cells has been the suggestion of a developmental path the cells follow (Lauzeral and coworkers). This is a well-defined change in properties each cell undergoes on a longer time scale than the typical dynamics of the cell. Here we show that this concept leads to an inhomogeneous and systematic spatial distribution of spiral waves, which can be predicted from the distribution of cells on the developmental path. We propose specific experiments for checking whether such systematics are also found in data and thus, indirectly, provide evidence of a developmental path.

Gaudet, P., et al. (2009). "Collaborative annotation of genes and proteins between UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot and dictyBase." Database (Oxford) 2009: bap016.
	UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot, a curated protein database, and dictyBase, the Model Organism Database for Dictyostelium discoideum, have established a collaboration to improve data sharing. One of the major steps in this effort was the 'Dicty annotation marathon', a week-long exercise with 30 annotators aimed at achieving a major increase in the number of D. discoideum proteins represented in UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot. The marathon led to the annotation of over 1000 D. discoideum proteins in UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot. Concomitantly, there were a large number of updates in dictyBase concerning gene symbols, protein names and gene models. This exercise demonstrates how UniProtKB/Swiss-Prot can work in very close cooperation with model organism databases and how the annotation of proteins can be accelerated through those collaborations.

Gateva, G., et al. (2009). The Ste20-like kinase DstC regulates phagocytosis in Dictyostelium discoideum. Eur J Cell Biol, Konstanz.
	Dictyostelium discoideum, a soil amoeba and professional phagocyte that mainly feeds on bacteria, can be seen as a primitive form of macrophage. To engulf particles phagocytic cells depend mainly on the dynamics of the actin cytoskeleton. Here we describe the Ste20-like kinase DstC as a regulator of the actin driven process of phagocytosis. Different members of the Ste20-like serine/threonine kinases were shown to finely tune chemotaxis (Arasada et al. (2006) Eur. J. Cell Biol., 85, 1059-1068) and to regulate late stages of cytokinesis (Rohlfs et al. (2007) J. Cell Sci., 120, 4345-4354) in D. discoideum. The catalytic domain of DstC is most similar to the mammalian kinases Mst1/Krs2 and Mst2/Krs1, which were shown to modulate cell growth and apoptosis. DstC localizes to actin-rich phagocytic cups during bacteria and yeast uptake. In contrast to actin, which usually disappears as soon as the particle is completely engulfed, the kinase DstC stays at the membrane of the phagosome for several minutes. We could map the
sorting-signal that localizes DstC to phagocytic cups and early phagosomes to about 90 amino acids in the Cterminal half of the protein. In addition, we show that the gene knockout for DstC has a severe phagocytosis defect. The data suggest that DstC is an important regulator of phagocytosis in D. discoideum.

Garcia, G. L., et al. (2009). "The Group Migration of Dictyostelium Cells Is Regulated by Extracellular Chemoattractant Degradation." Mol Biol Cell 66(11): 929-939.
	Monitoring Editor: Jean E. Schwarzbauer Starvation of Dictyostelium induces a developmental program where cells form an aggregate that eventually differentiates into a multicellular structure. The aggregate formation is mediated by directional migration of individual cells that quickly transition to group migration where cells align in a head-to-tail manner to form streams. Cyclic AMP acts as a chemoattractant and its production, secretion, and degradation are highly regulated. A key protein is the extracellular phosphodiesterase, PdsA. In this study we examine the role and localization of PdsA during chemotaxis and streaming. We find that pdsA(-) cells respond chemotactically to a narrower range of chemoattractant concentrations compared with WT cells. Moreover, unlike WT cells, pdsA(-) cells do not form streams at low cell densities and form unusual thick and transient streams at high cell densities. We find that the intracellular pool of PdsA is localized to the ER, which may provide a compartment for storage and secretion of PdsA. As we find that cAMP synthesis is normal in cells lacking PdsA, we conclude that signal degradation regulates the external cAMP gradient field generation and that the group migration behavior of these cells is compromised even though their signaling machinery is intact.

Froquet, R., et al. (2009). "Dictyostelium discoideum: a model host to measure bacterial virulence." Nature Protoc 4(1): 25-30.
	Dictyostelium amoebae have been used as a host model to measure virulence of a wide range of bacterial pathogens. The simple protocol described here takes advantage of the ability of Dictyostelium to grow and form plaques on a lawn of nonpathogenic bacteria but not on virulent bacteria. This assay can be modulated to measure the virulence of different bacterial pathogens. By adjusting various parameters such as cell numbers or media, a more quantitative measure of bacterial virulence can also be obtained. The entire procedure takes about 5 h to compete, and up to 2 further weeks may be required for plaques to form on the bacterial lawn.

Friedberg, F. and F. Rivero (2009). "Single and multiple CH (calponin homology) domain containing multidomain proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum: an inventory." Mol Biol Rep.
	We present an inventory of single or multiple calponin homology (CH) domain containing proteins of Dictyostelium discoideum. A multiple alignment and a phylogenetic tree of all 60 CH domains found in 36 proteins showed that most CH domains can be assigned to one of 6 types. We have then distributed the proteins into several classes according to the type and arrangement of the CH domains. Most proteins belong to the class of ABD (actin-binding domain)-forming CH tandems (CH1-CH2) of the alpha-actinin and fimbrin families or to the class of CH3 domain-bearing proteins. There are a few examples of proteins with a single CH1 or CH2 domain, one with a CH1-CH1 doublet and a single representative of the CHe class of microtubule-binding proteins. A comparison with CH domain proteins in Homo sapiens suggests that while the individual domains are available in both species, the existence of identical multidomain proteins in toto is rare. Fimbrin 1, alpha-actinin and EB1 appear as perfect orthologs in both species, whereas filamin and interaptin may represent ancestral forms of human filamin and nesprins. In four more cases (NAV/Unc-53-, smoothelin-, transgelin- and Gas2-related proteins) functional data are needed in order to establish a potential relationship with a human counterpart. Although extensive data exist for a few of the D. discoideum CH proteins, most remain to be characterized and our analysis may help predicting some of their properties.

Francione, L., et al. (2009). "Legionella pneumophila multiplication is enhanced by chronic AMPK signalling in mitochondrially diseased Dictyostelium cells." Dis Model Mech 2(9-10): 479-489.
	Human patients with mitochondrial diseases are more susceptible to bacterial infections, particularly of the respiratory tract. To investigate the susceptibility of mitochondrially diseased cells to an intracellular bacterial respiratory pathogen, we exploited the advantages of Dictyostelium discoideum as an established model for mitochondrial disease and for Legionella pneumophila pathogenesis. Legionella infection of macrophages involves recruitment of mitochondria to the Legionella-containing phagosome. We confirm here that this also occurs in Dictyostelium and investigate the effect of mitochondrial dysfunction on host cell susceptibility to Legionella. In mitochondrially diseased Dictyostelium strains, the pathogen was taken up at normal rates, but it grew faster and reached counts that were twofold higher than in the wild-type host. We reported previously that other mitochondrial disease phenotypes for Dictyostelium are the result of the activity of an energy-sensing cellular alarm protein, AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK). Here, we show that the increased ability of mitochondrially diseased cells to support Legionella proliferation is suppressed by antisense-inhibiting expression of the catalytic AMPKalpha subunit. Conversely, mitochondrial dysfunction is phenocopied, and intracellular Legionella growth is enhanced, by overexpressing an active form of AMPKalpha in otherwise normal cells. These results indicate that AMPK signalling in response to mitochondrial dysfunction enhances Legionella proliferation in host cells.

Fountain, S. J. and G. Burnstock (2009). "An evolutionary history of P2X receptors." Purinergic Signal 5(3): 269-272.
	Adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is an ancient and fundamentally important biological molecule involved in both intracellular and extracellular activities. P2X ionotropic and P2Y metabotropic receptors have been cloned and characterised in mammals. ATP plays a central physiological role as a transmitter molecule in processes including the sensation of pain, taste, breathing and inflammation via the activation of P2X receptors. P2X receptors are structurally distinct from glutamate and Cys-loop/nicotinic receptors and form the third major class of ligand-gated ion channel. Yet, despite the importance of P2X receptors, both as physiological mediators and therapeutic targets, the evolutionary origins and phylogenicity of ATP signalling via P2X receptors remain unclear.

Fountain, S. J. (2009). "Neurotransmitter Receptor Homologues of Dictyostelium discoideum." J Mol Neurosci.
	The social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum is a genetically amenable eukaryotic cell which displays many animal cell traits and has been used to study cellular signalling for over 30 years. Recently studies have highlighted the roles that molecules associated with synaptic transmission in animals, such as glutamate, GABA and ATP play in cellular differentiation and homeostasis in this simple organism. This short review summarises the evidence for the existence of both ionotropic and metabotropic families of neurotransmitter receptors in Dictyostelium.

Fey, P., et al. (2009). "dictyBase--a Dictyostelium bioinformatics resource update." Nucl Acids Res 37(Database issue): D515-D519.
	dictyBase (http://dictybase.org) is the model organism database for Dictyostelium discoideum. It houses the complete genome sequence, ESTs and the entire body of literature relevant to Dictyostelium. This information is curated to provide accurate gene models and functional annotations, with the goal of fully annotating the genome. This dictyBase update describes the annotations and features implemented since 2006, including improved strain and phenotype representation, integration of predicted transcriptional regulatory elements, protein domain information, biochemical pathways, improved searching and a wiki tool that allows members of the research community to provide annotations.

Fedorov, R., et al. (2009). "The mechanism of pentabromopseudilin inhibition of myosin motor activity." Nat Struct Mol Biol 16(1): 80-88.
	We have identified pentabromopseudilin (PBP) as a potent inhibitor of myosin-dependent processes such as isometric tension development and unloaded shortening velocity. PBP-induced reductions in the rate constants for ATP binding, ATP hydrolysis and ADP dissociation extend the time required per myosin ATPase cycle in the absence and presence of actin. Additionally, coupling between the actin and nucleotide binding sites is reduced in the presence of the inhibitor. The selectivity of PBP differs from that observed with other myosin inhibitors. To elucidate the binding mode of PBP, we crystallized the Dictyostelium myosin-2 motor domain in the presence of Mg(2+)-ADP-meta-vanadate and PBP. The electron density for PBP is unambiguous and shows PBP to bind at a previously unknown allosteric site near the tip of the 50-kDa domain, at a distance of 16 A from the nucleotide binding site and 7.5 A away from the blebbistatin binding pocket.

Elzie, C. A. and C. Janetopoulos (2009). "FRAP Analysis of Chemosensory Components of Dictyostelium." Meth Mol Biol 571: 349-369.
	Dictyostelium discoideum is a useful cell model for studying protein-protein interactions and deciphering complex signaling pathways similar to those found in mammalian systems. Many of these interactions were analyzed using classical in vitro biochemical techniques. However, with the accessibility of fluorescently tagged proteins, extensive protein networks are now being mapped out in living cells using a variety of microscopic techniques. One such technique, fluorescent recovery after photobleaching (FRAP), has been used in Dictyostelium to investigate a number of cellular processes including actin and cytoskeleton dynamics during chemotaxis and cytokinesis (J. Muscle Res. Cell Motil. 23:639-649, 2002; Biophys. J. 81:2010-2019, 2001; Mol. Biol. Cell 16:4256-4266, 2005), to follow trafficking of proteins to organelles such as the membrane, nucleus, and endoplasmic reticulum (Development 130:797-804, 2003; J. Cell Biol. 154:137-146, 2001), and to understand the role of proteins in cell adhesion during motility and division (Mol. Biol. Cell 18:4074-4084, 2007; J. Cell Sci. 120:4302-4309, 2007). FRAP is a powerful tool that should provide a vast amount of information on the mobility of a number of proteins, not only in Dictyostelium, but in many organisms. This study will lay out the methods of conducting FRAP experiments in Dictyostelium and discuss the large amount of knowledge which can be gained by adopting this as a common technique.

Elzie, C. A., et al. (2009). "Dynamic localization of G proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum." J Cell Sci 122(15): 2597-2603.
	Extracellular stimuli exert their effects on eukaryotic cells via serpentine G-protein-coupled receptors and mediate a vast number of physiological responses. Activated receptors stimulate heterotrimeric G-proteins, consisting of three subunits, ?, ? and ?. In Dictyostelium discoideum, cAMP binds to the cAMP receptor cAR1, which is coupled to the heterotrimer containing the G?2 subunit. These studies provide in vivo evidence as to how receptors influence the localization of the G-protein complex prior to and after ligand binding. Previous work has shown that the state of the heterotrimer could be monitored by changes in fluorescence (or Förster) resonance energy transfer (FRET) between the ?2- and ?-subunits of D. discoideum. We now report the kinetics of G-protein activation as a loss of FRET prior to and after cAMP addition by using total internal reflection fluorescence microscopy (TIRFM). We also performed photobleaching experiments to measure G-protein recovery times. Our data show that inactive and active G-proteins cycle between the cytosol and plasma membrane. These data suggest that cAR1 activation slows the membrane dissociation (`off') rate of the ?2 subunit, while simultaneously promoting ??-subunit dissociation. Class Descriptors: NAL: QH301.J6

Duran, M. B., et al. (2009). "Dictyostelium discoideum Paxillin Regulates Actin-Based Processes." Protist 160(2): 221-232.
	Paxillin is a key player in integrating the actin cytoskeleton with adhesion, and thus is essential to numerous cellular processes, including proliferation, differentiation, and migration in animal cells. PaxB, the Dictyostelium discoideum orthologue of paxillin, has been shown to be important for adhesion and development, much like its mammalian counterpart. Here, we use the overproduction of PaxB to gain better insight into its role in regulating the actin cytoskeleton and adhesion. We find that PaxB-overexpressing (PaxBOE) cells can aggregate and form mounds normally, but are blocked in subsequent development. This arrest can be rescued by addition of wild-type cells, indicating a non-cell autonomous role for PaxB. PaxBOE cells also have alterations in several actin-based processes, including adhesion, endocytosis, motility, and chemotaxis. PaxBOE cells exhibit an EDTA-sensitive increase in cell-cell cohesion, suggesting that PaxB-mediated adhesion is Ca(2+) or Mg(2+) dependent. Interestingly, cells overexpressing paxB are less adhesive to the substratum. In addition, PaxBOE cells display decreased motility under starved conditions, decreased endocytosis, and are unable to efficiently chemotax up a folate gradient. Taken together, the data suggest that proper expression of PaxB is vital for the regulation of development and actin-dependent processes.

Driscoll, M., et al. (2009). "The adventures of Dicty, the Dictyostelium cell." Chaos 19(4): 041110.
	
Cornelis, P. (2009). "Shielding, a new pathogen defence mechanism against PMNs." Microbiology 155(Pt 11): 3474-3475.
	
Chuai, M., et al. (2009). "Imaging cell signalling and movement in development." Semin Cell Dev Biol.
	Imaging is a method of choice to investigate the complex spatio-temporal cellular dynamics and the signalling pathways that control them during development. The ability to tag many proteins in vivo makes it possible to analyse the detailed dynamics of these interactions ranging over several orders of magnitude; from the study of single molecule events on the millisecond and nanometre scale up to the complex three-dimensional behaviour of cells in tissues on the millimetre scale over time periods of hours to days. Great advances are being made in the detailed study of molecular processes using high resolution imaging techniques in transparent samples close to the surface of cells or tissues, where light scattering is minimal. The major challenge is to translate some of these methods to the study of cells and tissues in their native 3D environment. These imaging methods require novel and innovative analysis methods to fully exploit the information available in these data. We will illustrate some of these points in the investigation of the development of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum and the study of cell behaviours during gastrulation in the chick embryo.

Choe, J. M., et al. (2009). "Dictyostelium cells bind a secreted autocrine factor that represses cell proliferation." BMC Biochem 10: 4.
	BACKGROUND: Dictyostelium cells secrete the proteins AprA and CfaD. Cells lacking either AprA or CfaD proliferate faster than wild type, while AprA or CfaD overexpressor cells proliferate slowly, indicating that AprA and CfaD are autocrine factors that repress proliferation. CfaD interacts with AprA and requires the presence of AprA to slow proliferation. To determine if CfaD is necessary for the ability of AprA to slow proliferation, whether AprA binds to cells, and if so whether the binding requires the presence of CfaD, we examined the binding and effect on proliferation of recombinant AprA. RESULTS: We find that the extracellular accumulation of AprA increases with cell density and reaches a concentration of 0.3 microg/ml near a stationary cell density. When added to wild-type or aprA- cells, recombinant AprA (rAprA) significantly slows proliferation at 0.1 microg/ml and higher concentrations. From 4 to 64 microg/ml, the effect of rAprA is at a plateau, slowing but not stopping proliferation. The proliferation-inhibiting activity of rAprA is roughly the same as that of native AprA in conditioned growth medium. Proliferating aprA- cells show saturable binding of rAprA to 92,000 +/- 11,000 cell-surface receptors with a KD of 0.03 +/- 0.02 microg/ml. There appears to be one class of binding site, and no apparent cooperativity. Native AprA inhibits the binding of rAprA to aprA- cells with a Ki of 0.03 mug/ml, suggesting that the binding kinetics of rAprA are similar to those of native AprA. The proliferation of cells lacking CrlA, a cAMP receptor-like protein, or cells lacking CfaD are not affected by rAprA. Surprisingly, both cell types still bind rAprA. CONCLUSION: Together, the data suggest that AprA functions as an autocrine proliferation-inhibiting factor by binding to cell surface receptors. Although AprA requires CfaD for activity, it does not require CfaD to bind to cells, suggesting the possibility that cells have an AprA receptor and a CfaD receptor, and activation of both receptors is required to slow proliferation. We previously found that crlA- cells are sensitive to CfaD. Combined with the results presented here, this suggests that CrlA is not the AprA or CfaD receptor, and may be the receptor for an unknown third factor that is required for AprA and CfaD activity.

Chen, J., et al. (2009). "Long-term production of soluble human Fas ligand through immobilization of Dictyostelium discoideum in a fibrous bed bioreactor." Appl Microbiol Biotechnol 82(2): 241-248.
	The production of recombinant glycoproteins in Dictyostelium discoideum by conventional cell culture methods was limited by low cell density as well as low growth rate. In this work, cotton towel with a good adsorption capability for D. discoideum cells was used as the immobilization matrix in an external fibrous bed bioreactor (FBB) system. With batch cultures in the FBB, the concentration of immobilized cells in the cotton fiber carrier increased to 1.37 x 10(8) cells per milliliter after 110-h cultivation, which was about tenfold higher than the maximal cell density in the conventional free-cell culture. Correspondingly, a high concentration of soluble human Fas ligand (hFasL; 173.7 microg l(-1)) was achieved with a high productivity (23 microg l(-1) h(-1)). The FBB system also maintained a high density of viable cells for hFasL production during repeated-batch cultures, achieving a productivity of 9 approximately 10 microg l(-1) h(-1) in all three batches studied during 15 days. The repeated-batch culture using immobilized cells of D. discoideum in the FBB system thus provides a good method for long-term and high-level production of hFasL.

Buttery, N. J., et al. (2009). "Quantification of social behavior in D. discoideum reveals complex fixed and facultative strategies." Curr Biol 19(16): 1373-1377.
	Understanding the maintenance of cooperation requires an understanding of the nature of cheaters and the strategies used to mitigate their effects. However, it is often difficult to determine how cheating or differential social success has arisen. For example, cheaters may employ different strategies (e.g., fixed and facultative), whereas other causes of unequal fitness in social situations can result in winners and losers without cheating. To address these problems, we quantified the social success of naturally occurring genotypes of Dictyostelium discoideum during the formation of chimeric fruiting bodies, consisting of dead stalk cells and viable spores. We demonstrate that an apparent competitive dominance hierarchy of spore formation in chimera is partly due to a fixed strategy where genotypes exhibit dramatically different spore allocations. However, we also find complex, variable facultative strategies, where genotypes change their allocation in chimera. By determining the magnitude and direction of these changes, we partition facultative cheating into two forms: (1) promotion of individual fitness through selfish behaviour ("self-promotion") and (2) coercion of other genotypes to act cooperatively. Our results demonstrate and define social interactions between D. discoideum isolates, thus providing a conceptual framework for the study of the genetic mechanisms that underpin social evolution.

Burnstock, G. and A. Verkhratsky (2009). "Evolutionary origins of the purinergic signalling system." Acta Physiol (Oxf) 195(4): 415-447.
	Purines appear to be the most primitive and widespread chemical messengers in the animal and plant kingdoms. The evidence for purinergic signalling in plants, invertebrates and lower vertebrates is reviewed. Much is based on pharmacological studies, but important recent studies have utilized the techniques of molecular biology and receptors have been cloned and characterized in primitive invertebrates, including the social amoeba Dictyostelium and the platyhelminth Schistosoma, as well as the green algae Ostreococcus, which resemble P2X receptors identified in mammals. This suggests that contrary to earlier speculations, P2X ion channel receptors appeared early in evolution, while G protein-coupled P1 and P2Y receptors were introduced either at the same time or perhaps even later. The absence of gene coding for P2X receptors in some animal groups [e.g. in some insects, roundworms (Caenorhabditis elegans) and the plant Arabidopsis] in contrast to the potent pharmacological actions of nucleotides in the same species, suggests that novel receptors are still to be discovered.

Brzostowski, J. A., et al. (2009). "The Elmo family forms an ancient group of actin-regulating proteins." Commun Integr Biol 2(4): 337-340.
	The Elmo protein family members are important mediators of small G protein activity, regulating actin-mediated processes such as chemotaxis and engulfment. Until recently,1 Elmo function has not been explored in professional phagocytes such as Dictyostelium discoideum. We discuss the significance of this family with respect to pathways that regulate Rac signaling, we present a comparison of Elmo proteins between representative taxa, and discuss our findings on ElmoA, one of six Elmo proteins found in D. discoideum.

Bruce, T. (2009). Functional interaction of RacF2 and the WASp family protein, scar, in the Rab8 signaling pathway of the social amoeba, Dictyostelium discoideum. United States -- South Carolina, Clemson University: 171.
	The small GTPase, Rab8, has been shown to play a role in cell-cell adhesion and restructuring of the actin cytoskeleton in both mammalian cells and the lower eukaryote, Dictyostelium discoideum . In D. discoideum , cells expressing constitutively activated Rab8 (Rab8CA) display reduced cell-cell adhesion and increased actin-rich protrusions as well as delayed aggregation. Rab8 has been implicated in the restructuring of the actin cytoskeleton, but no specific pathway for this action has been identified. In other systems, actin-rich membrane extension formation is regulated by WASp family proteins, including SCAR. Here we provide evidence of a functional relationship between the WASp family protein, SCAR, and Rab8. This provides the first genetic evidence in any cell system of a functional interaction between Rab8 and a WASp family protein. SCAR is known to be directly activated by Rac. Our results indicate that Rab8 interacts directly with RacF2 to rescue aggregation in cells expressing Rab8CA. While we were unable to demonstrate that RacF2 interacts directly with SCAR, we have demonstrated that RacF2 likely interacts directly with Rab8 to control cell-cell adhesion. Additionally, we have begun to conduct similar experiments in mammalian cells. To this end, we have developed and expressed EGFP (enhanced green fluorescent protein) chimeras of wildtype as well as constitutively active and dominant negative mutant forms of Rab8 in mammalian cells. In addition, we have designed a Rab8 activation assay based on its interaction with GCK, a germinal center kinase, which interacts directly with the active, GTP-bound form of Rab8. We have also investigated the effect of expression of mutant versions of Rab8 on GCK intracellular levels.

Brown, M. W., et al. (2009). "Phylogeny of the "forgotten" cellular slime mold, Fonticula alba, reveals a key evolutionary branch within Opisthokonta." Mol Biol Evol.
	The shared ancestry between Fungi and animals has been unequivocally demonstrated by abundant molecular and morphological data for well over a decade. Along with the animals and Fungi, multiple protists have been placed in the supergroup Opisthokonta making it exceptionally diverse. In an effort to place the cellular slime mold Fonticula alba, an amoeboid protist with aggregative, multicellular fruiting, we sequenced five nuclear encoded genes; small subunit ribosomal RNA, actin, beta-tubulin, elongation factor 1-alpha, and the cytosolic isoform of heat shock protein 70 for phylogenetic analyses. Molecular trees demonstrate that Fonticula is an opisthokont that branches sister to filose amoebae in the genus Nuclearia. Fonticula plus Nuclearia are sister to Fungi. We propose a new name for this well-supported clade, Nucletmycea, incorporating Nuclearia, Fonticula, and Fungi. Fonticula represents the first example of a cellular slime mold morphology within Opisthokonta. Thus, there are four types of multicellularity in the supergroup - animal, fungal, colonial, and now aggregative. Our data indicate that multicellularity in Fonticula evolved independent of that found in the fungal and animal radiations. With the rapidly expanding sequence and genomic data becoming available from many opisthokont lineages, Fonticula may be fundamental to understanding opisthokont evolution as well as any possible commonalities involved with the evolution of multicellularity.

Bretschneider, T., et al. (2009). "The three-dimensional dynamics of actin waves, a model of cytoskeletal self-organization." Biophys J 96(7): 2888-2900.
	Actin polymerization is typically initiated at specific sites in a cell by membrane-bound protein complexes, and the resulting structures are involved in specialized cellular functions, such as migration, particle uptake, or mitotic division. Here we analyze the potential of the actin system to self-organize into waves that propagate on the planar, substrate-attached membrane of a cell. We show that self-assembly involves the ordered recruitment of proteins from the cytoplasmic pool and relate the organization of actin waves to their capacity for applying force. Three proteins are shown to form distinct three-dimensional patterns in the actin waves. Myosin-IB is enriched at the wave front and close to the plasma membrane, the Arp2/3 complex is distributed throughout the waves, and coronin forms a sloping layer on top of them. CARMIL, a protein that links myosin-IB to the Arp2/3 complex, is also recruited to the waves. Wave formation does not depend on signals transmitted by heterotrimeric G-proteins, nor does their propagation require SCAR, a regulator upstream of the Arp2/3 complex. Propagation of the waves is based on an actin treadmilling mechanism, indicating a program that couples actin assembly to disassembly in a three-dimensional pattern. When waves impinge on the cell perimeter, they push the edge forward; when they reverse direction, the cell border is paralyzed. These data show that force-generating, highly organized supramolecular networks are autonomously formed in live cells from molecular motors and proteins controlling actin polymerization and depolymerization.

Breitsprecher, D., et al. (2009). "Analysis of Actin Assembly by In Vitro TIRF Microscopy." Meth Mol Biol 571: 401-415.
	Since directed movement toward an extracellular chemoattractant requires rapid and continuous reorgani-zation of the actin cytoskeleton to form complex structures such as a protruding lamellipodium, it is of great interest to analyze and understand the individual contribution of proteins specifically involved in this process. Over the last decade, enormous progress has been made toward understanding the versatile molecular mechanisms underlying actin-based cell motility and the regulation of site-specific F-actin assembly and disassembly. In spite of this wealth of knowledge and due to the constant discovery of novel regulatory factors, many questions remain to be answered. In this chapter, we describe a powerful method that allows to study the effects of actin-binding proteins on the assembly of single filaments by in vitro total internal reflection fluorescence (TIRF) microscopy using purified proteins and fluorescently labeled actin.

Bosgraaf, L., et al. (2009). "Analysis of Cell Movement by Simultaneous Quantification of Local Membrane Displacement and Fluorescent Intensities Using Quimp2." Cell Motil Cytoskel 66(3): 156-165.
	The use of fluorescent markers in living cells has increased dramatically in the recent years. The quantitative analysis of the images requires specific analysis software. Previously, the program Quimp was launched for quantitating fluorescent intensities at the membrane or the cortex of the cell. However, Quimp is not well suited to quantitate local membrane displacement. Here we present Quimp2 that is capable of tracking membrane subregions in time, which enables the simultaneous quantification of fluorescent intensities and membrane movement. Quimp2 has two new tools, (i) conversion filters to analyze movies obtained with fluorescent, DIC and phase contrast different microscopes, and (ii) a macro that calculates the local membrane displacement and provides various options to display the results. Quimp2 is used here to investigate the molecular mechanism of cell movement by correlating the dynamics of local membrane movement with the local concentration of myosin and F-actin. Cell Motil. Cytoskeleton 66: 156-165,2009. (C) 2009 Wiley-Liss, Inc.

Bosgraaf, L. and P. J. Van Haastert (2009). "Navigation of chemotactic cells by parallel signaling to pseudopod persistence and orientation." PLoS One 4(8): e6842.
	The mechanism of chemotaxis is one of the most interesting issues in modern cell biology. Recent work shows that shallow chemoattractant gradients do not induce the generation of pseudopods, as has been predicted in many models. This poses the question of how else cells can steer towards chemoattractants. Here we use a new computational algorithm to analyze the extension of pseudopods by Dictyostelium cells. We show that a shallow gradient of cAMP induces a small bias in the direction of pseudopod extension, without significantly affecting parameters such as pseudopod frequency or size. Persistent movement, caused by alternating left/right splitting of existing pseudopodia, amplifies the effects of this bias by up to 5-fold. Known players in chemotactic pathways play contrasting parts in this mechanism; PLA2 and cGMP signal to the cytoskeleton to regulate the splitting process, while PI 3-kinase and soluble guanylyl cyclase mediate the directional bias. The coordinated regulation of pseudopod generation, orientation and persistence by multiple signaling pathways allows eukaryotic cells to detect extremely shallow gradients.

Bosgraaf, L. and P. J. Van Haastert (2009). "The ordered extension of pseudopodia by amoeboid cells in the absence of external cues." PLoS One 4(4): e5253.
	Eukaryotic cells extend pseudopodia for movement. In the absence of external cues, cells move in random directions, but with a strong element of persistence that keeps them moving in the same direction Persistence allows cells to disperse over larger areas and is instrumental to enter new environments where spatial cues can lead the cell. Here we explore cell movement by analyzing the direction, size and timing of approximately 2000 pseudopodia that are extended by Dictyostelium cells. The results show that pseudpopod are extended perpendicular to the surface curvature at the place where they emerge. The location of new pseudopods is not random but highly ordered. Two types of pseudopodia may be formed: frequent splitting of an existing pseudopod, or the occasional extension of a de novo pseudopod at regions devoid of recent pseudopod activity. Split-pseudopodia are extended at approximately 60 degrees relative to the previous pseudopod, mostly as alternating Right/Left/Right steps leading to relatively straight zigzag runs. De novo pseudopodia are extended in nearly random directions thereby interrupting the zigzag runs. Persistence of cell movement is based on the ratio of split versus de novo pseudopodia. We identify PLA2 and cGMP signaling pathways that modulate this ratio of splitting and de novo pseudopodia, and thereby regulate the dispersal of cells. The observed ordered extension of pseudopodia in the absence of external cues provides a fundamental insight into the coordinated movement of cells, and might form the basis for movement that is directed by internal or external cues.

Boatti, L., et al. (2009). "Environmental proteomics in the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum." Compar Biochem Physiol - Part A: Mol Integr Physiol 154(1 (Suppl. 1)): S13-S14.
	Bidimensional electrophoresis and protein identification by tandem
mass spectrometry (nanoLC-ESI-Q-TOF) were used to evaluate
quantitative changes of protein expression determined by sub-lethal
amounts of some widespread pollutants. Our results pointed out that
different Hg doses (NOEC and LOEC for the replication rate) provided
distinct protein expressed signatures (PESs). In fact, protein identification
showed an adaptive response to oxidative stress at low dose – 13
up-regulated proteins – involving increased expression among others
of GST, SOD, catalase and thioredoxin. Such molecular fingerprint
disappeared at the higher concentration in which 12 spots out of 14
were downregulated. Moreover, differences emerged also in terms of post-translational modification (protein carbonylation) and such PESs
were correlated with the metabolic and physiological status of the cell.
Furthermore, Dictyostelium amoebae challenged with different classes
of chemicals, at the same equitoxic levels for lysosomal membrane
stability, showed distinct signatures for both dissimilar and similar
acting pollutants such as the heavy metal Ni, the organophosphate
Chlorpyrifos, and two nicotyl-receptor agonist biocides: Imidacloprid
and Thiacloprid. In the case of Ni (15 changing proteins), we observed
features involved in different processes such as nitrogen compounds
metabolism and protein folding, while Chlorpyrifos interested, in
particular, the energetic metabolism with 5 out of 13 changing
proteins. Imidacloprid and its congener Thiacloprid rendered 3 and
14 changing polypeptides. Both treatments determined the downexpression
of a different ATP synthetase, but apart from this analogy,
two completely different PESs were found. In conclusion, these results
validated the use of PES identification for ecotoxicological surveys.

Blau-Wasser, R., et al. (2009). "CP250, a Novel Acidic Coiled Coil Protein of the Dictyostelium centrosome, Affects Growth, Chemotaxis, and the Nuclear Envelope." Mol Biol Cell 20(20): 4348-4361.
	The Dictyostelium centrosome is a nucleus associated body consisting of a box-shaped core surrounded by the corona, an amorphous matrix functionally equivalent to the pericentriolar material of animal centrosomes which is responsible for the nucleation and anchoring of microtubules. Here we describe CP250 a component of the corona, an acidic coiled coil protein that is present at the centrosome throughout interphase while disappearing during prophase and reappearing at the end of late telophase. Amino acids 756-1148 of the 2110 amino acids are sufficient for centrosomal targeting and cell cycle-dependent centrosome association. Mutant cells lacking CP250 are smaller in size, growth on bacteria is delayed, chemotaxis is altered, and development is affected, which, in general, are defects observed in cytoskeletal mutants. Furthermore, loss of CP250 affected the nuclear envelope and led to reduced amounts and altered distribution of Sun-1, a conserved nuclear envelope protein that connects the centrosome to chromatin.

Blanc, C., et al. (2009). "Dictyostelium Tom1 participates to an ancestral ESCRT-0 complex." Traffic 10(2): 161-171.
	Sorting of ubiquitinated proteins to multivesicular bodies (MVBs) in mammalian cells relies on proteins with a Vps27/Hrs/STAM (VHS) domain. Here, we show that the amoeba Dictyostelium presents only one protein with a VHS domain: DdTom1. We demonstrate that the VHS domain of DdTom1 is followed by a Golgi-localized, gamma-ear-containing, ADP-ribosylation-factor-binding and Tom1 (GAT) domain that binds ubiquitin, and by a non-conserved C-terminal domain that can recruit clathrin, EGFr pathway substrate 15 and tumor susceptibility gene 101, a component of the MVB biogenesis machinery [endosomal complexes required for transport (ESCRT) complexes]. Both VHS and GAT domains interact with phospholipids and therefore could ensure the recruitment of DdTom1 to endosomal membranes. We propose that DdTom1 participates in an ancestral ESCRT-0 complex implicated in the sorting of ubiquitinated proteins into MVBs.

Betapudi, V. and T. T. Egelhoff (2009). "Roles of an Unconventional Protein Kinase and Myosin II in Amoeba Osmotic Shock Responses." Traffic.
	Abstract The contractile vacuole (CV) is a dynamic organelle that enables Dictyostelium amoeba and other protist to maintain osmotic homeostasis by expelling excess water. In the present study, we have uncovered a mechanism that coordinates the mechanics of the CV with myosin II, regulated by VwkA, an unconventional protein kinase that is conserved in an array of protozoa. Green fluorescent protein (GFP)-VwkA fusion proteins localize persistently to the CV during both filling and expulsion phases of water. In vwkA null cells, the established CV marker dajumin still localizes to the CV, but these structures are large, spherical and severely impaired for discharge. Furthermore, myosin II cortical localization and assembly are abnormal in vwkA null cells. Parallel analysis of wild-type cells treated with myosin II inhibitors or of myosin II null cells also results in enlarged CVs with impaired dynamics. We suggest that the myosin II cortical cytoskeleton, regulated by VwkA, serves a critical conserved role in the periodic contractions of the CV, as part of the osmotic protective mechanism of protozoa.

Beta, C. (2009). "Spatiotemporal stimulation of single cells using flow photolysis." Meth Mol Biol 571: 321-332.
	Quantitative studies of chemotactic signaling require experimental techniques that can expose single cells to chemical stimuli with high resolution in both space and time. Recently, we have introduced the method of flow photolysis (Anal. Chem. 79:3940-3944, 2007), which combines microfluidic techniques with the photochemical release of caged compounds. This method allows us to tailor chemical stimuli on the length scale of individual cells with subsecond temporal resolution. In this chapter, we provide a detailed protocol for the setup of flow photolysis experiments and exemplify this versatile approach by initiating membrane translocation of fluorescent fusion proteins in chemotactic Dictyostelium discoideum cells.

Benabentos, R., et al. (2009). "Polymorphic members of the lag gene family mediate kin discrimination in Dictyostelium." Curr Biol 19(7): 567-572.
	Self and kin discrimination are observed in most kingdoms of life and are mediated by highly polymorphic plasma membrane proteins. Sequence polymorphism, which is essential for effective recognition, is maintained by balancing selection. Dictyostelium discoideum are social amoebas that propagate as unicellular organisms but aggregate upon starvation and form fruiting bodies with viable spores and dead stalk cells. Aggregative development exposes Dictyostelium to the perils of chimerism, including cheating, which raises questions about how the victims survive in nature and how social cooperation persists. Dictyostelids can minimize the cost of chimerism by preferential cooperation with kin, but the mechanisms of kin discrimination are largely unknown. Dictyostelium lag genes encode transmembrane proteins with multiple immunoglobulin (Ig) repeats that participate in cell adhesion and signaling. Here, we describe their role in kin discrimination. We show that lagB1 and lagC1 are highly polymorphic in natural populations and that their sequence dissimilarity correlates well with wild-strain segregation. Deleting lagB1 and lagC1 results in strain segregation in chimeras with wild-type cells, whereas elimination of the nearly invariant homolog lagD1 has no such consequences. These findings reveal an early evolutionary origin of kin discrimination and provide insight into the mechanism of social recognition and immunity.

Baviskar, S. (2009). Molecular genetic approach to the functional analysis of a regulatory protein in Dictyostelium discoideum & research on assessments and constructivism in science education. United States -- Idaho, Idaho State University: 239.
	This dissertation includes two sections. Section I consists of the molecular biological research project "Functional analysis of the Dd-grp94 ( Dictyostelium discoideum glucose regulated protein 94 kilodalton) gene in D. discoideum. " To elucidate the biological roles of the Dd-grp94 gene, two molecular genetic approaches were adopted. Using a gene replacement technique Dd-grp94 insertion mutants could not be obtained despite successful incorporation of altered gene sequences. This indicated that Dd-grp94 might be an essential gene in D. discoideum. Using an RNA interference (RNAi) approach, it was concluded that Dd-grp94 plays a crucial and specific role in determining normal cell structure, growth and differentiation. Section II, "Science Education and Pedagogy" includes the education research project, statement of teaching philosophy, supervised teaching internship reports and reflections and publications in the field of science education. The goals of the education research project: "A survey of graduate teaching assistants of Idaho State University to know their attitudes toward teaching and education", were to discover teaching assistants' (TA) attitudes toward teaching before and after TA experience at ISU, the types of TA training and support services that were available to them and the TA training methods that they thought might help in improving their performance. Overall, the results of the study show that the TAs attitudes toward teaching and education were favorable. They also reported lack of proper training when they became a TA for the first time. The respondents also indicated the training methods/policies that should be made part of the TA training for the benefit of undergraduate education in general and teaching assistants in particular. While writing my statement of teaching philosophy, I cogitated on my understanding about how students learn and how teaching could facilitate the process of learning. It also made me conscious about the problems faced by the teachers and students in college science classrooms and the teaching and assessment methods that need to be reviewed to ameliorate the problems. The objective of supervised teaching internships was to gain experiences in teaching large classes using traditional and non-traditional teaching methods. The internships gave me the opportunity to test formative and summative assessment techniques. It also made me aware of my weaknesses and strengths as a teacher. The Doctor of Arts coursework encouraged me to review and compare journal articles on science education and education research. This led to the recognition that a gap exists between theoretical and practical aspects of science education. In collaboration with my colleagues and teachers, I co-authored two articles on constructivist teaching methods titled "Essential Criteria to Characterize Constructivist Teaching: Derived from a review of the literature and applied to five constructivist-teaching method articles" and "A Field Guide to Constructivism in the College Science Classroom: Four Essential Criteria and a Guide to their Usage". The third article "Moving Students from Information Recitation to Information Understanding: Exploiting Bloom's Taxonomy in Creating Science Questions" addresses how assessments could be used to know the level of students' understanding.

Banerjee, S., et al. (2009). "Molecular characterization of nucleocytosolic O-GlcNAc transferases of Giardia lamblia and Cryptosporidium parvum." Glycobiology 19(4): 331-336.
	O-Linked N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase (OGT) catalyzes the transfer of a single GlcNAc to the Ser or Thr of nucleocytoplasmic proteins. OGT activity, which may compete with that of kinases, is involved in signaling in animals and plants, and abnormalities in OGT activities have been associated with type 2 diabetes. Here, we show that ogt genes that predict enzymes with characteristic tetratricopeptide repeats and a spindly domain are present in some protists (Giardia, Cryptosporidium, Toxoplasma, and Dictyostelium) but are absent from the majority of protists examined (e.g., Plasmodium, Trypanosoma, Entamoeba, and Trichomonas). Similarly, ogt genes are present in some fungi but are absent from numerous other fungi, suggesting that secondary loss is an important contributor to the evolution of ogt genes. Nucleocytosolic extracts of Giardia and Cryptosporidium show OGT activity, and recombinant Giardia and Cryptosporidium OGTs are active in yeast and bacteria, respectively. These results suggest the possibility that O-GlcNAc modification of nucleocytosolic proteins also has function(s) in simple eukaryotes.

Balbo, A. and S. Bozzaro (2009). "A novel bioassay for evaluating soil bio-hazards using Dictyostelium as biosensor: validation and application to the Bio-Bio project." Fresenius Environ. Bull. 17(8b): 1137-1143.
	An easy and cheap biosensor has been developed for assessing soil biohazards. The toxicity assay is based on inhibition of Dictyostelium development, a soil amoeba undergoing multicellular development and cell differentia-tion under starving conditions. The sensitivity of the assay was assessed in soil samples with increasing concentra-tions of heavy metals and by comparison with standard bio-assays on a battery of soils collected from contaminated industrial sites. Dictyostelium appears to be highly sensi-tive to polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, mineral oil and, to a lesser extent, to heavy metals. The assay has been applied in a concerted action with other bioassays within the frame of the BIO-BIO project. 

Bakthavatsalam, D., et al. (2009). "A Dictyostelium chalone uses G proteins to regulate proliferation." BMC Biol 7: 44.
	BACKGROUND: Several studies have shown that organ size, and the proliferation of tumor metastases, may be regulated by negative feedback loops in which autocrine secreted factors called chalones inhibit proliferation. However, very little is known about chalones, and how cells sense them. We previously identified two secreted proteins, AprA and CfaD, which act as chalones in Dictyostelium. Cells lacking AprA or CfaD proliferate faster than wild-type cells, and adding recombinant AprA or CfaD to cells slows their proliferation. RESULTS: We show here that cells lacking the G protein components Galpha8, Galpha9, and Gbeta proliferate faster than wild-type cells despite secreting normal or high levels of AprA and CfaD. Compared with wild-type cells, the proliferation of galpha8-, galpha9- and gbeta- cells are only weakly inhibited by recombinant AprA (rAprA). Like AprA and CfaD, Galpha8 and Gbeta inhibit cell proliferation but not cell growth (the rate of increase in mass and protein per nucleus), whereas Galpha9 inhibits both proliferation and growth. galpha8- cells show normal cell-surface binding of rAprA, whereas galpha9- and gbeta- cells have fewer cell-surface rAprA binding sites, suggesting that Galpha9 and Gbeta regulate the synthesis or processing of the AprA receptor. Like other ligands that activate G proteins, rAprA induces the binding of [3H]GTP to membranes, and GTPgammaS inhibits the binding of rAprA to membranes. Both AprA-induced [3H]GTP binding and the GTPgammaS inhibition of rAprA binding require Galpha8 and Gbeta but not Galpha9. Like aprA- cells, galpha8- cells have reduced spore viability. CONCLUSION: This study shows that Galpha8 and Gbeta are part of the signal transduction pathway used by AprA to inhibit proliferation but not growth in Dictyostelium, whereas Galpha9 is part of a differealnt pathway that regulates both proliferation and growth, and that a chalone signal transduction pathway uses G proteins.

Bagorda, A., et al. (2009). "Real-time measurements of cAMP production in live Dictyostelium cells." J Cell Sci.
	Cyclic AMP has a crucial role during the entire developmental program of the social amoebae Dictyostelium, acting both as an intracellular second messenger and, when secreted, as a directional cue that is relayed to neighboring cells during chemotaxis. Although significant knowledge about cAMP production in chemotaxing cells has been derived from studies performed on cell populations, cAMP dynamics at the single cell level have not been investigated. To examine this, we used a FRET-based cAMP sensor that possesses high cAMP sensitivity and great temporal resolution. We show the transient profile of cAMP accumulation in live Dictyostelium cells and establish that chemoattractants control intracellular cAMP dynamics by regulating synthesis via the adenylyl cyclase ACA. aca(-) cells show no significant change in FRET response following chemoattractant addition. Furthermore, cells lacking ACB, the other adenylyl cyclase expressed in chemotaxing cells, behave similarly to wild-type cells. We also establish that the RegA is the major phosphodiesterase that degrades intracellular cAMP in chemotaxis-competent cells. Interestingly, we failed to measure intracellular cAMP compartmentalization in actively chemotaxing cells. We conclude that cytosolic cAMP, which is destined to activate PKA, is regulated by ACA and RegA and does not compartmentalize during chemotaxis.

Baboolal, T. G., et al. (2009). "The SAH domain extends the functional length of the myosin lever." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 106(52): 22193-22198.
	Stable, single alpha-helix (SAH) domains are widely distributed in the proteome, including in myosins, but their functions are unknown. To test whether SAH domains can act as levers, we replaced four of the six calmodulin-binding IQ motifs in the levers of mouse myosin 5a (Myo5) with the putative SAH domain of Dictyostelium myosin MyoM of similar length. The SAH domain was inserted between the IQ motifs and the coiled coil in a Myo5 HMM construct in which the levers were truncated from six to two IQ motifs (Myo5-2IQ). Electron microscopy of this chimera (Myo5-2IQ-SAH) showed the SAH domain was straight and 17 nm long as predicted, restoring the truncated lever to the length of wild-type (Myo5-6IQ). The powerstroke (of 21.5 nm) measured in the optical trap was slightly less than that for Myo5-6IQ but much greater than for Myo5-2IQ. Myo5-2IQ-SAH moved processively along actin at physiological ATP concentrations with similar stride and run lengths to Myo5-6IQ in in-vitro single molecule assays. In comparison, Myo5-2IQ is not processive under these conditions. Solution biochemical experiments indicated that the rear head did not mechanically gate the rate of ADP release from the lead head, unlike Myo5-6IQ. These data show that the SAH domain can form part of a functional lever in myosins, although its mechanical stiffness might be lower. More generally, we conclude that SAH domains can act as stiff structural extensions in aqueous solution and this structural role may be important in other proteins.

Aubry, L., et al. (2009). "The arrestin fold: variations on a theme." Curr Genomics 10(2): 133-142.
	Endocytosis of ligand-activated plasma membrane receptors has been shown to contribute to the regulation of their downstream signaling. beta-arrestins interact with the phosphorylated tail of activated receptors and act as scaffolds for the recruitment of adaptor proteins and clathrin, that constitute the machinery used for receptor endocytosis. Visual- and beta-arrestins have a two-lobe, immunoglobulin-like, beta-strand sandwich structure. The recent resolution of the crystal structure of VPS26, one of the retromer subunits, unexpectedly evidences an arrestin fold in this protein, which is otherwise unrelated to arrestins. From a functional point of view, VPS26 is involved in the retrograde transport of the mannose 6-P receptor from the endosomes to the trans-Golgi network. In addition to the group of genuine arrestins and Vps26, mammalian cells harbor a vast repertoire of proteins that are related to arrestins on the basis of their PFAM Nter and Cter arrestin- domains, which are named Arrestin Domain- Containing proteins (ADCs). The biological role of ADC proteins is still poorly understood. The three subfamilies have been merged into an arrestin-related protein clan.This paper provides an overall analysis of arrestin clan proteins. The structures and functions of members of the subfamilies are reviewed in mammals and model organisms such as Drosophila, Caenorhabditis, Saccharomyces and Dictyostelium.

Annesley, S. J. and P. R. Fisher (2009). Scaffolding proteins that regulate the actin cytoskeleton in cell movement. Cell Movement: New Research Trends. T. Abrue and G. Silva, Nova Science Publishers, Inc.: 1-50.
	Actin is the main component of the microfilament system in all eukaryotic 
cells and is essential for most intra- and inter-cellular movement including 
muscle contraction, cell movement, cytokinesis, cytoplasmic organisation and 
intracellular transport. The polymerisation and depolymerisation of actin 
filaments in nonmuscle cells is highly regulated and the reorganisation of 
the actin cytoskeleton can occur within seconds after chemotactic stimulation.  
There are many proteins which are involved in the regulation of the actin 
cytoskeleton. These include receptors which receive chemotactic stimuli, 
G proteins, second messengers, signalling molecules, kinases, phosphatases 
and transcription factors. These proteins are varied and numerous and are 
involved in multiple pathways. Despite the large number of proteins, there 
are not enough to coordinate the various responses of the cytoskeleton. An
 additional level of regulation is conferred by scaffolding proteins. Due to 
the presence of numerous protein interaction domains, scaffolding proteins
 can tether various proteins to a certain location within the cell to 
facilitate the rapid transfer of signals from one protein to the next. 
This colocalisation of the components of a particular pathway also helps 
to prevent unwanted crosstalk with components of other pathways. Tethering 
receptors, kinases, phosphatases and cytoskeletal components to a particular 
location within a cell helps ensure efficient relaying and feedback inhibition 
of signals to enable rapid activation and inactivation of responses.  
Scaffolding proteins are also thought to stabilise the otherwise weak 
interactions between particular proteins in a cascade and to catalyse the 
activation of the pathway components.  There are numerous scaffolding 
proteins involved in the regulation of the cytoskeleton and this chapter 
has focussed on examples from several groups of scaffolding proteins 
including the MAPK scaffolds, the AKAPs, scaffolds of the post synaptic 
density and actin binding scaffolding proteins.

Annesley, S. J. and P. R. Fisher (2009). "Dictyostelium slug phototaxis." Meth Mol Biol 571: 67-76.
	Dictyostelium slugs are able to respond to environmental stimuli in an extremely sensitive and efficient way. This enables a slug to migrate to more favourable locations for formation of fruiting bodies and dispersal of spores. Phototaxis is a readily assayed phenotype and reflects the interactions of environmental stimuli with morphogenetic signalling systems controlling the movement of the slug. The methods for assaying phototaxis are described here. Qualitative phototaxis tests are described and can be used for rapid screening of potential mutants or effects of pharmacological agents. These tests are simple to conduct yet care must be taken in order to avoid the effects of high cell density which can be misleading when interpreting results. Quantitative phototaxis tests can be performed with known cell densities of amoebae which ensures that any effects seen are caused by the mutation or pharmacological agent and not simply due to differences in cell densities.

Annesley, S. J. and P. R. Fisher (2009). "Dictyostelium discoideum-a model for many reasons." Mol Cell Biochem 329(1-2): 73-91.
	The social amoeba or cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum is a "professional" phagocyte that has long been recognized for its value as a biomedical model organism, particularly in studying the actomyosin cytoskeleton and chemotactic motility in non-muscle cells. The complete genome sequence of D. discoideum is known, it is genetically tractable, readily grown clonally as a eukaryotic microorganism and is highly accessible for biochemical, cell biological and physiological studies. These are the properties it shares with other microbial model organisms. However, Dictyostelium combines these with a unique life style, with motile unicellular and multicellular stages, and multiple cell types that offer for study an unparalleled variety of phenotypes and associated signalling pathways. These advantages have led to its recent emergence as a valuable model organism for studying the molecular pathogenesis and treatment of human disease, including a variety of infectious diseases caused by bacterial and fungal pathogens. Perhaps surprisingly, this organism, without neurons or brain, has begun to yield novel insights into the cytopathology of mitochondrial diseases as well as other genetic and idiopathic disorders affecting the central nervous system. Dictyostelium has also contributed significantly to our understanding of NDP kinase, as it was the Dictyostelium enzyme whose structure was first determined and related to enzymatic activity. The phenotypic richness and tractability of Dictyostelium should provide a fertile arena for future exploration of NDPK's cellular roles.

Anjard, C., et al. (2009). "Steroids initiate a signaling cascade that triggers rapid sporulation in Dictyostelium." Development 136(5): 803-812.
	Encapsulation of prespore cells of Dictyostelium discoideum is controlled by several intercellular signals to ensure appropriate timing during fruiting body formation. Acyl-CoA-binding protein, AcbA, is secreted by prespore cells and processed by the prestalk protease TagC to form the 34 amino acid peptide SDF-2 that triggers rapid encapsulation. AcbA is secreted when gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) is released from prespore cells and binds to GrlE, a G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR). Analysis of SDF-2 production in mutant strains lacking Galpha subunits and GPCRs, either as pure populations or when mixed with other mutant strains, uncovered the non-cell-autonomous roles of GrlA, Galpha4 and Galpha7. We found that Galpha7 is essential for the response to GABA and is likely to be coupled to GrlE. GrlA-null and Galpha4-null cells respond normally to GABA but fail to secrete it. We found that they are necessary for the response to a small hydrophobic molecule, SDF-3, which is released late in culmination. Pharmacological inhibition of steroidogenesis during development blocked the production of SDF-3. Moreover, the response to SDF-3 could be blocked by the steroid antagonist mifepristone, whereas hydrocortisone and other steroids mimicked the effects of SDF-3 when added in the nanomolar range. It appears that SDF-3 is a steroid that elicits rapid release of GABA by acting through the GPCR GrlA, coupled to G protein containing the Galpha4 subunit. SDF-3 is at the head of the cascade that amplifies the signal for encapsulation to ensure the rapid, synchronous formation of spores.

Amagai, A. (2009). "A novel function of ethylene." Gene Regul Syst Bio 3: 21-30.
	The cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium mucoroides-7 (Dm7) exhibits clear dimorphism; macrocyst formation as a sexual process and sorocap formation as an asexual process. These two life cycles are regulated by two regulators, ethylene and cyclic AMP (cAMP). This is the first report demonstrating a novel function of ethylene at the cellular level. That is, ethylene induces a zygote formed by cell fusion and subsequent nuclear fusion. Recently, the function of ethylene at the molecular level has been clarified as it induces zygote formation through an enhanced expression of a novel gene, zyg1. The signaling pathway for induction or inhibition of zygote formation is now trying to be clarified focusing on the ZYG1 protein.

Alonso-Latorre, B., et al. (2009). "Distribution of traction forces associated with shape changes during amoeboid cell migration." Conf Proc IEEE Eng Med Biol Soc 2009: 3346-3349.
	Amoeboid motility results from the cyclic repetition of shape changes leading to periodic oscillations of the cell length (motility cycle). We analyze the dominant modes of shape change and their association to the traction forces exerted on the substrate using Principal Component Analysis (PCA) of time-lapse measurements of cell shape and traction forces in migrating Dictyostelium cells. Using wild-type cells (wt) as reference, we investigated Myosin II activity by studying Myosin II heavy chain null cells (mhcA-) and Myosin II essential light chain null cells (mlcE-). We found that wt, mlcE-and mhcA- cells utilize similar modes of shape changes during their motility cycle, although these shape changes are implemented at a slower pace in Myosin II null mutants. The number of dominant modes of shape changes is surprisingly few with only four modes accounting for 75% of the variance in all cases. The three principal shape modes are dilation/elongation, bending, and bulging of the front/back. The second mode, resulting from sideways protrusion/retraction, is associated to lateral asymmetries in the cell traction forces, and is significantly less important in mhcA- cells. These results indicate that the mechanical cycle of traction stresses and cell shape changes remains remarkably similar for all cell lines but is slowed down when myosin function is lost, probably due to a reduced control on the spatial organization of the traction stresses.

Allan, C. Y. and P. R. Fisher (2009). "In Vivo Measurements of Cytosolic Calcium in Dictyostelium discoideum." Methods Mol Biol 571: 291-308.
	The involvement of calcium signalling during chemotaxis in Dictyostelium discoideum is well documented. Spatiotemporal increases of intracellular calcium ([Ca(2+)](i)) have been observed within seconds of stimulation with the chemoattractants folic acid and cAMP. This rise in [Ca(2+)](i) localises to the rear cortex of the cell (J. Cell Sci. 109:2673-2678, 1996) and has been found to be not essential for chemotaxis, but likely to be involved in fine tuning of chemotactic responses (EMBO J. 19:4846-4854, 2000). Measurements of cytosolic Ca(2+) ([Ca(2+)](c)) responses have involved the use of different Ca(2+) probes including ectopically expressed aequorin (a Ca(2+)-sensitive photoprotein), the fluorescent dye fura-2-dextran and the radioisotope (45)Ca(2+). The aequorin method (J. Cell Sci. 110:2845-2853, 1997) offers nonperturbing, real-time measurement of cytosolic free Ca(2+) in suspensions of cells, but the low levels of light emission preclude measurements on individual cells. Fura-2 imaging (Cell Calcium 22:65-74, 1997; Eur. J. Cell Biol. 58:172-181, 1992; Biochem. J. 332:541-548, 1998; BMC Cell Biol. 6:13, 2005) has the advantage of allowing Ca(2+) responses to be observed in individual cells so that the subcellular localisation of the response and differences amongst individual cells can be observed. However data collection is more labour intensive, much smaller numbers of cells are sampled, the cells are unavoidably damaged physically during loading and the time resolution (s) is much less than that provided by the aequorin method (ms). (45)Ca(2+) uptake assays (Cell Biol. Int. Rep. 2:71-79, 1978; J. Cell Biol. 112:103-110, 1991) allow measurement of Ca(2+) influx from the medium by cell suspensions with a time resolution of the order of seconds. Radioactive Ca(2+) uptake measurements are unsullied by but equally do not provide information about Ca(2+) efflux, intracellular Ca(2+) release or sequestration or changes in cytosolic free Ca(2+) levels.

Zhang, S., et al. (2008). "Spatiotemporal regulation of Ras activity provides directional sensing." Curr Biol 18(20): 1587-1593.
	Cells' ability to detect and orient themselves in chemoattractant gradients has been the subject of numerous studies, but the underlying molecular mechanisms remain largely unknown [1]. Ras activation is the earliest polarized response to chemoattractant gradients downstream from heterotrimeric G proteins in Dictyostelium, and inhibition of Ras signaling results in directional migration defects [2]. Activated Ras is enriched at the leading edge, promoting the localized activation of key chemotactic effectors, such as PI3K and TORC2 [2-5]. To investigate the role of Ras in directional sensing, we studied the effect of its misregulation by using cells with disrupted RasGAP activity. We identified an ortholog of mammalian NF1, DdNF1, as a major regulator of Ras activity in Dictyostelium. We show that disruption of nfaA leads to spatially and temporally unregulated Ras activity, causing cytokinesis and chemotaxis defects. By using unpolarized, latrunculin-treated cells, we show that tight regulation of Ras is important for gradient sensing. Together, our findings suggest that Ras is part of the cell's compass and that the RasGAP-mediated regulation of Ras activity affects directional sensing.

Zhang, S. (2008). Dictyostelium NF1-mediated Ras signaling is essential for directional sensing, polarization and cell motility. United States -- California, University of California, San Diego.
	In response to a chemoattractant signal, amoeboid cells such as neutrophils, macrophages, and Dictyostelium cells are able to polarize and move towards the chemoattractant source. During Dictyostelium chemotaxis, it is known that cells amplify and differentially localize specific signaling responses at the future anterior and posterior of the cell leading to outwardly directed F-actin polymerization and myosin II-mediated contractility at the front and back, respectively. However, how cells initially detect and orient themselves in chemoattractant gradients remains largely unknown. Ras activation is the earliest polarized response to chemoattractant gradients downstream from heterotrimeric G proteins in Dictyostelium and inhibition of Ras signaling results in directional migration defects. Activated Ras is enriched at the leading edge, promoting the localized activation of key chemotactic effectors, such as PI3K and TORC2. To investigate the role of Ras in directional sensing, I studied the effect of its misregulation using cells with disrupted RasGAP activity. I identified an orthologue of mammalian NF1, DdNF1, as a major regulator of Ras activity in Dictyostelium . nfaA - cells fail to spatially and temporally regulate Ras activity, which leads to misregulated downstream PI3K activity and F-actin polymerization. As a result, severe cytokinesis and chemotaxis defects in nfaA - cells are observed. Through both genetic and biochemical approaches, I identified RasG as the major target of DdNF1 GAP activity in chemotaxis. Using unpolarized, latrunculin-treated cells, I showed that tight regulation of Ras is required for directional sensing. It is speculated that the uniformly distributed DdNF1 functions as a global inactivator of Ras activity, coupled to putative local activators (e.g. RasGEFs), unidentified global inhibitors as well as positive feedback signaling, leads to persistence and amplification of the Ras signal at the front and promotes leading edge formation. Consequently, cells migrate up the gradients. Together, it is suggested that Ras is part of the cell's compass, and that the RasGAP-mediated regulation of Ras activity affects directional sensing. Further, growing nfaA - cells exhibit elevated Ras activity and display enhanced random cellular movement, consistent with the model that a G protein-independent Ras/PI3K/F-actin circuit regulates basic cell motility.

Yumura, S., et al. (2008). "Multiple mechanisms for accumulation of myosin II filaments at the equator during cytokinesis." Traffic 9(12): 2089-2099.
	Total internal reflection fluorescence microscopy revealed how individual bipolar myosin II filaments accumulate at the equatorial region in dividing Dictyostelium cells. Direct observation of individual filaments in live cells provided us with much convincing information. Myosin II filaments accumulated at the equatorial region by at least two independent mechanisms: (i) cortical flow, which is driven by myosin II motor activities and (ii) de novo association to the equatorial cortex. These two mechanisms were mutually redundant. At the same time, myosin II filaments underwent rapid turnover, repeating their association and dissociation with the actin cortex. Examination of the lifetime of mutant myosin filaments in the cortex revealed that the turnover mainly depended on heavy chain phosphorylation and that myosin motor activity accelerated the turnover. Double mutant myosin II deficient in both motor and phosphorylation still accumulated at the equatorial region, although they displayed no cortical flow and considerably slow turnover. Under this condition, the filaments stayed for a significantly longer time at the equatorial region than at the polar regions, indicating that there are still other mechanisms for myosin II accumulation such as binding partners or stabilizing activity of filaments in the equatorial cortex.

Yew, Z. T., et al. (2008). "Free-energy landscapes of proteins in the presence and absence of force." J Phys Chem B 112(51): 16902-16907.
	The equilibrium properties of the fourth immunoglobulin domain of filamin from Dictyostelium discoideum (ddFLN4) in the absence and presence of a small force (0-6 pN) pulling the termini apart is characterized through atomistic numerical simulation. The equilibrium free-energy landscape of ddFLN4 is found to change in a complex fashion that cannot be described in terms of one-dimensional projections as usually done in the interpretation of mechanical (un)folding experiments. Nonequilibrium unfolding simulations reveal that the major unfolding intermediate corresponds to a marginally populated state at equilibrium that only appears when a force larger than 4 pN is applied. Finally, we show that if the free-energy difference between states is taken to be linear in the applied force, the proportionality coefficient is not the difference in the end-to-end distance between pair of states as generally assumed even though the data can be reasonably fitted. The present results suggest that mechanical unfolding experiments may reveal states that are not accessible in the absence of force. Thus, special care should be taken when trying to interpret both equilibrium and nonequilibrium mechanical (un)folding experiments in light of the (un)folding properties in the absence of a force.

Yang, Y., et al. (2008). "Extensive conformational transitions are required to turn on ATP hydrolysis in myosin." J Mol Biol 381(5): 1407-1420.
	Conventional myosin is representative of biomolecular motors in which the hydrolysis of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) is coupled to large-scale structural transitions both in and remote from the active site. The mechanism that underlies such "mechanochemical coupling," especially the causal relationship between hydrolysis and allosteric structural changes, has remained elusive despite extensive experimental and computational analyses. In this study, using combined quantum mechanical and molecular mechanical simulations and different conformations of the myosin motor domain, we provide evidence to support that regulation of ATP hydrolysis activity is not limited to residues in the immediate environment of the phosphate. Specifically, we illustrate that efficient hydrolysis of ATP depends not only on the proper orientation of the lytic water but also on the structural stability of several nearby residues, especially the Arg238-Glu459 salt bridge (the numbering of residues follows myosin II in Dictyostelium discoideum) and the water molecule that spans this salt bridge and the lytic water. More importantly, by comparing the hydrolysis activities in two motor conformations with very similar active-site (i.e., Switches I and II) configurations, which distinguished this work from our previous study, the results clearly indicate that the ability of these residues to perform crucial electrostatic stabilization relies on the configuration of residues in the nearby N-terminus of the relay helix and the "wedge loop." Without the structural support from those motifs, residues in a closed active site in the post-rigor motor domain undergo subtle structural variations that lead to consistently higher calculated ATP hydrolysis barriers than in the pre-powerstroke state. In other words, starting from the post-rigor state, turning on the ATPase activity requires not only displacement of Switch II to close the active site but also structural transitions in the N-terminus of the relay helix and the "wedge loop," which have been proposed previously to be ultimately coupled to the rotation of the converter subdomain 40 A away.

Yang, L., et al. (2008). "Modeling cellular deformations using the level set formalism." BMC Syst Biol 2: 68.
	BACKGROUND: Many cellular processes involve substantial shape changes. Traditional simulations of these cell shape changes require that grids and boundaries be moved as the cell's shape evolves. Here we demonstrate that accurate cell shape changes can be recreated using level set methods (LSM), in which the cellular shape is defined implicitly, thereby eschewing the need for updating boundaries. RESULTS: We obtain a viscoelastic model of Dictyostelium cells using micropipette aspiration and show how this viscoelastic model can be incorporated into LSM simulations to recreate the observed protrusion of cells into the micropipette faithfully. We also demonstrate the use of our techniques by simulating the cell shape changes elicited by the chemotactic response to an external chemoattractant gradient. CONCLUSION: Our results provide a simple but effective means of incorporating cellular deformations into mathematical simulations of cell signaling. Such methods will be useful for simulating important cellular events such as chemotaxis and cytokinesis.

Yang, L. (2008). Mathematical modeling of Dictyostelium discoideum chemotaxis: Gradient sensing and motility. United States -- Maryland, The Johns Hopkins University.
	Chemotaxis is a process in which cells respond to chemical stimuli in their environment and move towards or away from the chemical cue. Chemotaxis is a crucial function of many cell types and plays critical roles in all stages of development. In eukaryotic chemotaxis, a cell must sense the extracellular gradient, choose a direction of motion, polarize and finally deform the cell body to produce motility. Cells achieve this by localizing key signaling as well as force generating molecules to the correct location within the cell. Failure of this process can mean extermination in single cellular organisms, as well as diseases in multicellular bodies. In this dissertation, we apply a multidisciplinary approach, combining cell biology, mathematical modeling, as well as control systems analysis to study Dictyostelium chemotaxis. We start by introducing a basic mathematical model, which accounts for some of the behaviors seen in chemotaxing cells. One weakness of the biochemical model emerges as the lack of power in signal amplification. Next, we use the basic model as a motif, based on biological evidence, to build a detailed biochemical model based on key molecular players in the Dictyostelium gradient sensing pathway. This model is able to consolidate previous experimental results, as well as propose several null hypotheses. It also exhibits increased amplification of the input signal, matching that of drug treated cells. However, the level of amplification exhibited by this model is still lacking compared to that of untreated cells. To search for means of further signal amplification in the Dictyostelium system, we target a critical signaling protein PTEN, and observe its activation patterns in the living cell. As a result, we uncover a possible biochemical feedback pathway regulating the binding dynamics of PTEN. When added to the computational model, this feedback pathway is able to improve the signal amplification performance of the model. We then perform theoretical control systems analysis to study the effect of feedback on the underlying reduced model. We show that the addition of feedback can account for certain nonlinear features seen in chemotaxing cells. While many simulation and analysis tools are available to study biological organisms as stationary objects, there are few practical methods to study cell motion and deformation. Another aspect of this thesis involve developing a computational framework to simulate large deformations of the cell body, such as cell motion during chemotaxis. We develop a viscoelastic model of the mechanical cell based on micropipette aspiration assays. This mechanical model is then coupled with level set methods to provide the moving cell framework. Finally, we are able to combine the stationary biochemical model of gradient sensing with the moving cell framework to achieve true cell morphology and motion in simulation. Our simulation framework is used to explore the relations between cell shape and force generation.

Yamada, Y., et al. (2008). "A new family of transcription factors." Development 135(18): 3093-3101.
	CudA, a nuclear protein required for Dictyostelium prespore-specific gene expression, binds in vivo to the promoter of the cotC prespore gene. A 14 nucleotide region of the cotC promoter binds CudA in vitro and ECudA, an Entamoeba CudA homologue, also binds to this site. The CudA and ECudA DNA-binding sites contain a dyad and, consistent with a symmetrical binding site, CudA forms a homodimer in the yeast two-hybrid system. Mutation of CudA binding sites within the cotC promoter reduces expression from cotC in prespore cells. The CudA and ECudA proteins share a 120 amino acid core of homology, and clustered point mutations introduced into two highly conserved motifs within the ECudA core region decrease its specific DNA binding in vitro. This region, the presumptive DNA-binding domain, is similar in sequence to domains in two Arabidopsis proteins and one Oryza protein. Significantly, these are the only proteins in the two plant species that contain an SH2 domain. Such a structure, with a DNA-binding domain located upstream of an SH2 domain, suggests that the plant proteins are orthologous to metazoan STATs. Consistent with this notion, the DNA sequence of the CudA half site, GAA, is identical to metazoan STAT half sites, although the relative positions of the two halves of the dyad are reversed. These results define a hitherto unrecognised class of transcription factors and suggest a model for the evolution of STATs and their DNA-binding sites.

Yamada, A., et al. (2008). "Phenotypic plasticity of Escherichia coli at initial stage of symbiosis with Dictyostelium discoideum." Biosystems 92(1): 1-9.
	We observed the change in the physiological state of Escherichia coli cells at the initial stage for establishing a new symbiotic relationship with Dictyostelium discoideum cells. For the physiological state, we monitored green fluorescence intensity due to a green fluorescent protein (GFP) gene integrated into the chromosome by flow cytometry (FCM). On co-cultivation of the two species, a new population of E. coli cells with increased GFP concentration appeared, and when the formation of mucoidal colonies housing the coexisting two species began, most E. coli cells were from the new population. Further experiments suggest that the physiological change is induced by interaction with D. discoideum cells and is reversible, although the processes of the changes in both directions seem to proceed gradually. The observed phenotypic plasticity, together with natural selection under a co-cultivation environment, may be important for leading to the evolution of a new symbiotic system.

Xiong, H., et al. (2008). "Dictyostelium Sun-1 connects the centrosome to chromatin and ensures genome stability." Traffic 9(5): 708-724.
	The centrosome-nucleus attachment is a prerequisite for faithful chromosome segregation during mitosis. We addressed the function of the nuclear envelope (NE) protein Sun-1 in centrosome-nucleus connection and the maintenance of genome stability in Dictyostelium discoideum. We provide evidence that Sun-1 requires direct chromatin binding for its inner nuclear membrane targeting. Truncation of the cryptic N-terminal chromatin-binding domain of Sun-1 induces dramatic separation of the inner from the outer nuclear membrane and deformations in nuclear morphology, which are also observed using a Sun-1 RNAi construct. Thus, chromatin binding of Sun-1 defines the integrity of the nuclear architecture. In addition to its role as a NE scaffold, we find that abrogation of the chromatin binding of Sun-1 dissociates the centrosome-nucleus connection, demonstrating that Sun-1 provides an essential link between the chromatin and the centrosome. Moreover, loss of the centrosome-nucleus connection causes severe centrosome hyperamplification and defective spindle formation, which enhances aneuploidy and cell death significantly. We highlight an important new aspect for Sun-1 in coupling the centrosome and nuclear division during mitosis to ensure faithful chromosome segregation.

Wilhelm, C., et al. (2008). "Intracellular trafficking of magnetic nanoparticles to design multifunctional biovesicles." Small 4(5): 577-582.
	
Wilhelm, C. (2008). "Out-of-equilibrium microrheology inside living cells." Phys Rev Lett 101(2): 028101.
	Both forced and spontaneous motions of magnetic microbeads engulfed by Dictyostelium cells have served as experimental probes of intracellular dynamics. The complex shear modulus G*(omega), determined from active oscillatory measurements, has a power-law dynamics and increases with the probe size, reflecting intracellular structural complexity. The combined use of passive microrheology allows one to derive the power spectrum of active forces acting on intracellular phagosomes and to test the validity of the fluctuation-dissipation theorem inside living cells.

Washington, R. W. and D. A. Knecht (2008). "Actin binding domains direct actin-binding proteins to different cytoskeletal locations." BMC Cell Biol 9: 10.
	Background: Filamin (FLN) and non-muscle alpha-actinin are members of a family of F-actin cross-linking proteins that utilize Calponin Homology domains ( CH-domain) for actin binding. Although these two proteins have been extensively characterized, little is known about what regulates their binding to F-actin filaments in the cell. Results: We have constructed fusion proteins consisting of green fluorescent protein (GFP) with either the entire cross-linking protein or its actin-binding domain ( ABD) and examined the localization of these fluorescent proteins in living cells under a variety of conditions. The full-length fusion proteins, but not the ABD's complemented the defects of cells lacking both endogenous proteins indicating that they are functional. The localization patterns of filamin ( GFP-FLN) and alpha-actinin ( GFP-alpha A) were overlapping but distinct. GFP-FLN localized to the peripheral cell cortex as well as to new pseudopods of unpolarized cells, but was observed to localize to the rear of polarized cells during cAMP and folate chemotaxis. GFP-alpha A was enriched in new pseudopods and at the front of polarized cells, but in all cases was absent from the peripheral cortex. Although both proteins appear to be involved in macropinocytosis, the association time of the GFP-probes with the internalized macropinosome differed. Surprisingly, the localization of the GFP-actin-binding domain fusion proteins precisely reflected that of their respective full length constructs, indicating that the localization of the protein was determined by the actin-binding domain alone. When expressed in a cell line lacking both filamin and alpha-actinin, the probes maintain their distinct localization patterns suggesting that they are not functionally redundant. Conclusion: These observations strongly suggest that the regulation of the binding of these proteins to actin filaments is built into the actin-binding domains. We suggest that different actin binding domains have different affinities for F-actin filaments in functionally distinct regions of the cytoskeleton.

Waligorska, A., et al. (2008). "Reversible inhibition of movement in the amoebae Dictyostelium discoideum and its effect on chemoattractant recognition." Folia Biol (Krakow) 56(3-4): 123-131.
	The cell fixatives formaldehyde and KMnO4 at low concentrations reversibly inhibit the movement of D. discoideum amoebae without directly interfering with cell viability. This inhibition of cell movement is accompanied by the decreased attachment of cells to substratum. When the tenacity and attachment of immobilized cells are artificially increased by compressing cells between two glass surfaces, the amoebae begin to move even in the presence of the fixatives. Amoebae starved for 24 hours, subjected to fixatives and a mineral salt solution in which they remained motionless, maintained chemotactic responses to folic acid and only after a few hours of active locomotion became reactive to cAMP, in contrast to amoebae that reacted to cAMP after starvation in the absence of fixatives.

Vourekas, A., et al. (2008). The RNA component of ribonuclease P from Dictyostelium discoideum. Febs j.
	
Vicker, M. G. and J. F. Grutsch (2008). "Dual chemotaxis signalling regulates Dictyostelium development: intercellular cyclic AMP pulses and intracellular F-actin disassembly waves induce each other." Eur J Cell Biol 87(10): 845-861.
	Aggregating Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae periodically emit and relay cAMP, which regulates their chemotaxis and morphogenesis into a multicellular, differentiated organism. Cyclic AMP also stimulates F-actin assembly and chemotactic pseudopodium extension. We used actin-GFP expression to visualise for the first time intracellular F-actin assembly as a spatio-temporal indicator of cell reactions to cAMP, and thus the kinematics of cell communication, in aggregating streams. Every natural cAMP signal pulse induces an autowave of F-actin disassembly, which propagates from each cell's leading end to its trailing end at a linear rate, much slower than the calculated and measured velocities of cAMP diffusion in aggregating Dictyostelium. A sequence of transient reactions follows behind the wave, including anterior F-actin assembly, chemotactic pseudopodium extension and cell advance at the cell front and, at the back, F-actin assembly, extension of a small retrograde pseudopodium (forcing a brief cell retreat) and chemotactic stimulation of the following cell, yielding a 20s cAMP relay delay. These dynamics indicate that stream cell behaviour is mediated by a dual signalling system: a short-range cAMP pulse directed from one cell tail to an immediately following cell front and a slower, long-range wave of intracellular F-actin disassembly, each inducing the other.

Vicente, J. J., et al. (2008). "Structural and functional studies of a family of Dictyostelium discoideum developmentally regulated, prestalk genes coding for small proteins." BMC Microbiol. 8:1: 16 pages.
	
Veltman, D. M. and P. J. van Haastert (2008). "The role of cGMP and the rear of the cell in Dictyostelium chemotaxis and cell streaming." J. Cell Sci. 121: 120-127.
	
Veltman, D. M., et al. (2008). "Four key signaling pathways mediating chemotaxis in Dictyostelium discoideum." J Cell Biol 180(4): 747-753.
	Chemotaxis is the ability of cells to move in the direction of an external gradient of signaling molecules. Cells are guided by actin-filled protrusions in the front, whereas myosin filaments retract the rear of the cell. Previous work demonstrated that chemotaxis of unpolarized amoeboid Dictyostelium discoideum cells is mediated by two parallel pathways, phosphoinositide-3-kinase (PI3K) and phospholipase A2 (PLA2). Here, we show that polarized cells exhibit very good chemotaxis with inhibited PI3K and PLA2 activity. Using genetic screens, we demonstrate that this activity is mediated by a soluble guanylyl cyclase, providing two signals. The protein localizes to the leading edge where it interacts with actin filaments, whereas the cyclic guanosine monophosphate product induces myosin filaments in the rear of the cell. We conclude that chemotaxis is mediated by multiple signaling pathways regulating protrusions at the front and rear of the cell. Cells that express only rear activity are polarized but do not exhibit chemotaxis, whereas cells with only front signaling are unpolarized but undergo chemotaxis.

Veeranki, S., et al. (2008). "The GPI-anchored superoxide dismutase SodC is essential for regulating basal Ras activity and for chemotaxis of Dictyostelium discoideum." J Cell Sci 121(Pt 18): 3099-3108.
	A genetic screen for Dictyostelium mutant displaying high level of constitutive phosphatidylinositol (3,4,5)-trisphosphate led to the finding that the glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI)-anchored superoxide dismutase SodC regulates small GTPase Ras. Cells that lack SodC exhibited constitutively high levels of active Ras, more membrane localization of GFP-PHcrac, and defects in chemoattractant sensing, cell polarization and motility. These defects of SodC-lacking cells were partially restored by expression of wild-type SodC but not by the catalytically inactive mutant SodC (H245R, H247Q). Furthermore, an inhibition of PI3K activity in SodC-deficient cells by LY294002 only partially restored chemoattractant sensing and cell polarization, consistent with the fact that SodC-deficient cells have aberrantly high level of active Ras, which functions upstream of PI3K. A higher level of active GFP-RasG was observed in SodC-deficient cells, which significantly decreased upon incubation of SodC-deficient cells with the superoxide scavenger XTT. Having constitutively high levels of active Ras proteins and more membrane localization of GFP-PHcrac, SodC-deficient cells exhibited severe defects in chemoattractant sensing, cell polarization and motility.

van Egmond, W. N., et al. (2008). "Intramolecular activation mechanism of the Dictyostelium LRRK2 homolog Roco protein GbpC." J Biol Chem 283(44): 30412-30420.
	GbpC is a large multidomain protein involved in cGMP-mediated chemotaxis in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. GbpC belongs to the Roco family of proteins that often share a central core region, consisting of leucine-rich repeats, a Ras domain (Roc), a Cor domain, and a MAPKKKinase domain. In addition to this core, GbpC contains a RasGEF domain and two cGMP-binding domains. Here, we report on an intramolecular signaling cascade of GbpC. In vitro, the RasGEF domain of GbpC specifically accelerates the GDP/GTP exchange of the Roc domain. Moreover, cGMP binding to GbpC strongly stimulates the binding of GbpC to GTP-agarose, suggesting cGMP-stimulated GDP/GTP exchange at the Roc domain. The function of the protein in vivo was investigated by rescue analysis of the chemotactic defect of gbpC null cells. Mutants that lack a functional guanine exchange factor (GEF), Roc, or kinase domain are inactive in vivo. Together, the results suggest a four-step intramolecular activation mechanism of the Roco protein GbpC: cGMP binding to the cyclic nucleotide-binding domains, activation of the GEF domain, GDP/GTP exchange of Roc, and activation of the MAPKKK domain.

van der Wel, H., et al. (2008). Conservation of the Skp1 Modification Pathway of Dictyostelium in Toxoplasma gondii. Glycobiology.
	
Urushihara, H. (2008). "Developmental biology of the social amoeba: history, current knowledge and prospects." Dev Growth Differ 50 Suppl 1: S277-281.
	The cellular slime molds are known as the social amoebae because they conditionally construct multicellular forms in which cell differentiation takes place. Among them, Dictyostelium discoideum has many advantages as an experimental system and is widely used as a model organism. This review aims to reconsider how it has contributed to the understanding of developmental mechanisms and what should be done in the future. Chemotaxis, cell differentiation, genome and transcriptome, and the ecological and evolutionary implications of development are discussed.

Tsujioka, M., et al. (2008). "Overlapping functions of the two talin homologues in Dictyostelium." Euk Cell 7(5): 906-916.
	Talin is a cytoskeletal protein involved in constructing and regulating focal adhesions in animal cells. The cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum has two talin homologues, talA and talB, and earlier studies have characterized the single knockout mutants. talA(-) cells show reduced adhesion to the substrates and slightly impaired cytokinesis leading to a high proportion of multinucleated cells in the vegetative stage, while the development is normal. In contrast, talB(-) cells are characterized by reduced motility in the developmental stage, and they are arrested at the tight-mound stage. Here, we created and analyzed a double mutant with a disruption of both talA and talB. Defects in adhesion to the substrates, cytokinesis, and development were more severe in cells with a disruption of both talA and talB. The talA(-) talB(-) cells failed to attach to the substrates in the vegetative stage, exhibited a higher proportion of multinucleated cells than talA(-) cells, and showed more-reduced motility during the development and an earlier developmental arrest than talB(-) cells at the loose-mound stage. Moreover, overexpression of either talA or talB compensated for the loss of the other talin, respectively. The analysis of talA(-) talB(-) cells also revealed that talin was required for the formation of paxillin-rich adhesion sites and that there was another adhesion mechanism which is independent of talin in the developmental stage. This is the first study demonstrating overlapping functions of two talin homologues, and our data further indicate the importance of talin.

Tsiavaliaris, G., et al. (2008). "Mechanism, regulation, and functional properties of Dictyostelium myosin-1B." J. Biol. Chem. 283: 4520-4527.
	
Tresse, E., et al. (2008). "A UDP-glucose derivative is required for vacuolar autophagic cell death." Autophagy 4(5): 680-691.
	Autophagic cell death in Dictyostelium can be dissociated into a starvation-induced sensitization stage and a death induction stage. A UDP-glucose pyrophosphorylase (ugpB) mutant and a glycogen synthase (glcS) mutant shared the same abnormal phenotype. In vitro, upon starvation alone mutant cells showed altered contorted morphology, indicating that the mutations affected the pre-death sensitization stage. Upon induction of cell death, most of these mutant cells underwent death without vacuolization, distinct from either autophagic or necrotic cell death. Autophagy itself was not grossly altered as shown by conventional and electron microscopy. Exogenous glycogen or maltose could complement both ugpB(-) and glcS(-) mutations, leading back to autophagic cell death. The glcS(-) mutation could also be complemented by 2-deoxyglucose that cannot undergo glycolysis. In agreement with the in vitro data, upon development glcS(-) stalk cells died but most were not vacuolated. We conclude that a UDP-glucose derivative (such as glycogen or maltose) plays an essential energy-independent role in autophagic cell death.

Tresse, E., et al. (2008). "Autophagy and autophagic cell death in Dictyostelium." Meth Enzymol 451: 343-358.
	Autophagic cell death can be conveniently studied in Dictyostelium discoideum, an exceptionally favorable model not only because of its well-known genetic and experimental advantages but also because in Dictyostelium there is no apoptosis machinery that could interfere with nonapoptotic cell death. Moreover, autophagic cell death in Dictyostelium can be dissociated into a starvation-induced sensitization stage, during which autophagy is induced, and a death induction stage. We show here how to demonstrate, assess and analyze this autophagic cell death. This can be studied in vivo during the development of Dictyostelium, and in vitro, using modifications of the monolayer technique of Rob Kay et al. Methods to follow this autophagic cell death qualitatively and quantitatively are reported.

Tikhonenko, I., et al. (2008). "Kinesin-5 is not essential for mitotic spindle elongation in Dictyostelium." Cell Motil Cytoskeleton 65(11): 853-862.
	The proper assembly and operation of the mitotic spindle is essential to ensure the accurate segregation of chromosomes and to position the cytokinetic furrow during cell division in eukaryotes. Not only are dynamic microtubules required but also the concerted actions of multiple motor proteins are necessary to effect spindle pole separation, chromosome alignment, chromatid segregation, and spindle elongation. Although a number of motor proteins are known to play a role in mitosis, there remains a limited understanding of their full range of functions and the details by which they interact with other spindle components. The kinesin-5 (BimC/Eg5) family of motors is largely considered essential to drive spindle pole separation during the initial and latter stages of mitosis. We have deleted the gene encoding the kinesin-5 member in Dictyostelium, (kif13), and find that, in sharp contrast with results found in vertebrate, fly, and yeast organisms, kif13(-) cells continue to grow at rates indistinguishable from wild type. Phenotype analysis reveals a slight increase in spindle elongation rates in the absence of Kif13. More importantly, there is a dramatic, premature separation of spindle halves in kif13(-) cells, suggesting a novel role of this motor in maintaining spindle integrity at the terminal stages of division.

Tian, R., et al. (2008). The Dictyostelium response to infection with Legionella. Eur. J Cell Biol.
	The professional phagocyte, Dictyostelium discoideum, is a useful model for the study of the medically relevant infection of host cells by pathogenic microorganisms. The analysis of infected D. discoideum revealed that L. pneumophila triggers a stress response, interferes with intracellular vesicle fusion and profoundly influences and exploits the metabolism of its host. Comparative studies with pathogenic and non-pathogenic L. pneumophila 24 hours post-infection identified 240 differentially expressed genes that appear to be involved in the pathogenic response (Farbrother et al., Cell Microbiol 3:438-456, 2006). More than 50 of these genes have orthologues in human. The upregulated autophagy 9 (ATG9) gene was selected for further studies. Autophagy contributes to many physiological and pathological processes, including morphogenesis, cancer, neurodegenerative disorders and infectious diseases. ATG9- cells display severe developmental defects, consistent with a role of autophagy during development. In addition, the mutant has a strong phagocytosis defect, pointing to a role of ATG9 in phagocytosis and infection. Expression profiling revealed a large number of differentially regulated genes and a clear enrichment of lysozyme activity and protein degradation among these genes. Further studies are aimed to illuminate the function of ATG9 during phagocytosis and infection.

Thapa, P. (2008). Methodology for the directional growth of conducting nanowires and their attachment to live cells. United States -- Oklahoma, Oklahoma State University.
	Scope and Method of Study . The purpose of this study was to develop a technique as an alternative approach for establishing cell-to-wire contact by the use of nanowire grown from Directed Electrochemical Nanowire Assembly (DENA) technique with weak perturbation to living cells. Findings and Conclusions . Methodology for the long-range growth of metallic and polymeric nanowires between on-chip electrodes has been established. Theoretical modelling reveals that there is a strong, long-range component of the applied potential that extends entirely across the gap between a user-chosen pair of electrodes. This component defines a vector of maximum ion-flux in the laboratory reference frame. For the metallic nanowires, this voltage-component tends to bring the crystallographic axis of growth into coincidence with the flux vector. For the polymeric nanowires, this channel of maximum ion flux restricts polymerization to the channel-region. Hence, amorphous materials may be grown with wire-like geometries, and the growth-path of the wires may be controlled. These wire-laden chips are useful substrates for cell physiological studies. To this end, the electrotactical behavior of Dictyostelium discoideum cells has been exploited to induce the formation of strong mechanical contacts between individual pseudopodia and the tips of biased polymeric wires in a manner that is only weakly perturbative to the cells. This capability is expected to facilitate electro-mechanical probing of cellular processes.

Taylor, N. M. (2008). Characterization of a putative novel Ras effector in Dictyostelium discoideum. United States -- California, University of California, San Diego.
	A putative novel Ras effector, TJ1, was identified through reverse genetics and characterized through chemotaxis, developmental and biochemical assays to determine its role in Dictyostelium discoideum. Additionally, the Ras association (RA) domains within TJ1 were deleted and subsequent cell lines were characterized to determine their function in TJ1. TJ1 is required for proper chemotaxis. Compared to wild-type cells, tj1-null cells were not polarized, did not chemotax, and as a result displayed a delay in initial stages of development. Additionally, findings indicate that a fully functional TJ1 protein requires at least one of the two RA domains therein. Disruption of either of the two individual RA domains in TJ1 does not result in strong defects in chemotaxis, development or localization, whereas the deletion of both RA domains leads to a reduced ability to chemotax and therefore a subsequent delay in the stages of early development. Initial experiments suggest that there is no interaction between TJ1 and Ras proteins, however more experiments need to be conducted to further explore the role of TJ1 as a novel Ras effector in Dictyostelium. Presently, the complete mechanisms of the Ras signaling pathway is largely unknown. Characterizing TJ1 and the RA domains therein should shed light on how TJ1 is involved in Ras signaling in Dictyostelium discoideum and presumably how Ras signaling operates in other organisms based on the conservation of pathways across species.

Tatischeff, I., et al. (2008). "Dictyostelium extracellular vesicles containing Hoechst 33342 transfer the dye into the nuclei of living cells: a fluorescence study." J. Fluoresc. 18: 319-328.
	
Tang, Y. and R. H. Gomer (2008). "CnrN regulates Dictyostelium group size using a counting factor-independent mechanism." Commun Integr Biol 1(2): 185-187.
	One of the simplest examples of a complex behavior is the aggregation of solitary Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae to form a 20,000-cell fruiting body. A field of starving amoebae first breaks up into territories. In each territory, the cells form a spider-like pattern of streams of cells. As part of a negative feedback loop, counting factor (CF), a secreted protein complex whose concentration increases with the size of the stream, prevents over-sized fruiting bodies from being formed by increasing cell motility and decreasing cell-cell adhesion, which causes the breakup of excessively large streams. Cells lacking the phosphatase CnrN (cnrN(-) cells) form small aggregation territories and few streams.1 In this report, we present computer simulations that suggest that in the absence of stream formation, CF should be unable to affect group size. As predicted, cnrN(-) group size is insensitive to the addition or depletion of CF. Together, the data indicate that CnrN regulates group size by regulating both the break-up of a field of cells into aggregation territories and stream formation during development, and that CnrN-mediated and CF-mediated group size regulation use different mechanisms.

Tang, Y. and R. H. Gomer (2008). "A protein with similarity to PTEN regulates aggregation territory size by decreasing cyclic AMP pulse size during Dictyostelium discoideum development." Euk Cell 7(10): 1758-1770.
	An interesting but largely unanswered biological question is how eukaryotic organisms regulate the size of multicellular tissues. During development, a lawn of Dictyostelium cells breaks up into territories, and within the territories the cells aggregate in dendritic streams to form groups of approximately 20,000 cells. Using random insertional mutagenesis to search for genes involved in group size regulation, we found that an insertion in the cnrN gene affects group size. Cells lacking CnrN (cnrN(-)) form abnormally small groups, which can be rescued by the expression of exogenous CnrN. Relayed pulses of extracellular cyclic AMP (cAMP) direct cells to aggregate by chemotaxis to form aggregation territories and streams. cnrN(-) cells overaccumulate cAMP during development and form small territories. Decreasing the cAMP pulse size by treating cnrN(-) cells with cAMP phosphodiesterase or starving cnrN(-) cells at a low density rescues the small-territory phenotype. The predicted CnrN sequence has similarity to phosphatase and tensin homolog (PTEN), which in Dictyostelium inhibits cAMP-stimulated phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase signaling pathways. CnrN inhibits cAMP-stimulated phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate accumulation, Akt activation, actin polymerization, and cAMP production. Our results suggest that CnrN is a protein with some similarities to PTEN and that it regulates cAMP signal transduction to regulate territory size.

Tang, Y. (2008). Characterization of CnrN-mediated size regulation in Dictyostelium. United States -- Texas, Rice University.
	An interesting but largely unanswered question in biology is how eukaryotic organisms precisely regulate the size of multicellular tissues or groups of cells. Developing Dictyostelium cells aggregate in dendritic streams using relayed pulses of adenosine 3'5'-cyclic monophosphate (cAMP) as a chemoattractant to form <20,000-cell fruiting bodies. Counting factor (CF), a secreted protein complex, regulates group size by increasing cell motility and decreasing cell-cell adhesion to induce the breakup of excessively large aggregation streams. We used a second-site suppressor screen by conducting random insertional mutagenesis in smlA - cells which over-secrete CF to search for CF signal transduction components, and found that an insertion in the cnrN gene affects group size. Cells lacking CnrN ( cnrN - cells) form small aggregation territories with few streams, which then form small fruiting bodies. Expressing CnrN in cnrN - cells rescues the abnormal phenotype. Computer simulations suggested that in the absence of stream formation, CF should be unable to affect group size. As predicted, cnrN - group size is insensitive to the addition or depletion of CF, even though CF regulates the motility of cnrN - cells. cnrN - cells have excessively large cAMP-stimulated cAMP pulses, and the small territory phenotype can be rescued by developing cells in the presence of the cAMP-hydrolyzing enzyme cAMP phosphodiesterase or simply by starving cells at low densities. The predicted amino acid sequence of CnrN has similarity to phosphatase and tensin homologs (PTENs). PTENs play a key role in inhibiting phosphatidylinositol 3' kinase (PI3K) dependent pathways. In Dictyostelium , cAMP pulses activate PI3Ks, and activated PI3Ks in turn stimulate adenylyl cyclase to produce cAMP. As indicated by the sequence similarity of CnrN to PTEN, in response to cAMP stimulation, cnrN - cells show elevated and extended activation of PI3K-dependent pathways, including PIP 3 accumulation, Akt activation, actin polymerization, and adenylyl cyclase-catalysed cAMP production. Our results suggest that CnrN has functional similarity to PTEN and regulates the cAMP pulse size by negatively regulating PI3K-dependent pathways, and that CnrN-mediated regulation on territory and stream formation may use a CF-independent mechanism.

Tang, L., et al. (2008). "tsunami, the Dictyostelium homolog of the Fused kinase, is required for polarization and chemotaxis." Genes Dev 22(16): 2278-2290.
	In a forward genetic screen for chemotaxis mutants in Dictyostelium discoideum, we identified a loss-of-function mutation, designated tsunami, encoding a homolog of the Fused kinase. Cells lacking tsuA function could not effectively perform chemotaxis and were unable to become polarized or correctly orient pseudopods in chemotactic gradients. While tsuA(-) cells were able to couple receptor occupancy to phosphatidylinositol (3,4,5) trisphosphate (PIP3) production and actin polymerization, the PIP3 response was prolonged and basal F-actin levels were increased. Interestingly, TsuA localizes to the microtubule network and puncta mainly found at the cell periphery. Analysis of the gene uncovered a novel C-terminal domain that we designated the Tsunami Homology (TH) domain. Both the kinase domain and the TH domain are required to rescue the phenotypic defects of tsuA(-) cells. While kinase activity is not required for localization to microtubules, the TH domain is essential. Thus, localization of kinase activity to microtubules is critical for TsuA function. We propose that functions in association with the microtubule network may underlie the divergent roles of Fused kinase proteins in different organisms.

Takagi, H., et al. (2008). "Functional analysis of spontaneous cell movement under different physiological conditions." PLoS One 3(7): e2648.
	Cells can show not only spontaneous movement but also tactic responses to environmental signals. Since the former can be regarded as the basis to realize the latter, playing essential roles in various cellular functions, it is important to investigate spontaneous movement quantitatively at different physiological conditions in relation to a cell's physiological functions. For that purpose, we observed a series of spontaneous movements by Dictyostelium cells at different developmental periods by using a single cell tracking system. Using statistical analysis of these traced data, we found that cells showed complex dynamics with anomalous diffusion and that their velocity distribution had power-law tails in all conditions. Furthermore, as development proceeded, average velocity and persistency of the movement increased and as too did the exponential behavior in the velocity distribution. Based on these results, we succeeded in applying a generalized Langevin model to the experimental data. With this model, we discuss the relation of spontaneous cell movement to cellular physiological function and its relevance to behavioral strategies for cell survival.

Taft, M. H., et al. (2008). "Dictyostelium myosin-5b is a conditional processive motor." J Biol Chem 283(40): 26902-26910.
	Dictyostelium myosin-5b is the gene product of myoJ and one of two closely related myosin-5 isoenzymes produced in Dictyostelium discoideum. Here we report a detailed investigation of the kinetic and functional properties of the protein. In standard assay buffer conditions, Dictyostelium myosin-5b displays high actin affinity in the presence of ADP, fast ATP hydrolysis, and a high steady-state ATPase activity in the presence of actin that is rate limited by ADP release. These properties are typical for a processive motor that can move over long distances along actin filaments without dissociating. Our results show that a physiological decrease in the concentration of free Mg(2+)-ions leads to an increased rate of ADP release and shortening of the fraction of time the motor spends in the strong actin binding states. Consistently, the ability of the motor to efficiently translocate actin filaments at very low surface densities decreases with decreasing concentrations of free Mg(2+)-ions. In addition, we provide evidence that the observed changes in Dd myosin-5b motor activity are of physiological relevance and propose a mechanism by which this molecular motor can switch between processive and non-processive movement.

Sunderland, M. E. (2008). Studying development: The value of diversity, theory, and synthesis. United States -- Arizona, Arizona State University.
	Today there is a set of assumptions about how best to study developmental biology. This is reflected in the way that science is funded. The National Institutes of Health in the United States, the Wellcome Trust in the United Kingdom, and the Canadian Institutes of Health Research reward research that focuses on understanding a select few defined model organisms, especially at the genomic and proteomic ('omics') level. Research programs are increasingly centered on one model organism, and on generating mass amounts of 'omics' data for potential analysis. This dissertation makes the case that there is a historically consistent alternative to this approach, which is supported by the works of successful, mainstream biologists. This alternative approach emphasizes the importance of including theoretical grounding as well as data, knowledge of the diversity of organisms, and a synthetic orientation to biology. This dissertation presents three case studies to demonstrate this alternative. An in depth examination of Thomas Hunt Morgan's Regeneration , John Tyler Bonner's Morphogenesis: An Essay on Development and Alejandro Sánchez Alvarado's contemporary research program offers three examples of synthetic approaches to development that relied strongly on studying a diversity of organisms and emphasized the fundamental importance of theory. Although at first glance these examples might seem like exemplars of the status quo, since Morgan, Bonner, and Sánchez Alvarado are each renowned for their pioneering work on a single model organism (the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster , the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum and the freshwater planarian Schmidtea mediterranea , respectively), this dissertation shows that each articulated a fundamentally different alternative approach before later narrowing his focus. Spanning from 1901 to the present day, these examples present a historically consistent alternative to studying development, which raises questions about the assumptions that substantiate the status quo approach.

Sunaga, N., et al. (2008). "Expression of zinc transporter family genes in Dictyostelium." Int J Dev Biol 52(4): 377-381.
	Regulation of the zinc ion concentration is physiologically important to control the activities of a variety of cellular molecules. A BLAST search against a conserved domain of known zinc transporters identified twelve putative zinc transporter family genes in the Dictyostelium genome. Phylogenetic analysis revealed the presence of three zinc transporter subfamilies in Dictyostelium. One subfamily of proteins, consisting of the ZntA-D proteins, has weak homology to the STAT3-inducible LIV-1 protein. In addition, in situ hybridization revealed that the zntA-D genes are expressed in the pstAB cells, this expression being absent in the Dd-STATa null mutant. Thus, Dd-STATa may control stalk cell differentiation through some members of the zinc transporter family genes during Dictyostelium development.

Stewman, S. F. (2008). Stochastic models of growth and guidance in biology: A physical chemist's adventures with pollen tubes and filopodial bundles. United States -- Illinois, The University of Chicago.
	Motile cells display a myriad of complex and interconnected behaviors that span multiple time and distance scales. Mathematical modeling is a useful tool to help understand the systems involved in chemotropic cell motility. This dissertation develops minimal, stochastic models for features of motility at both the sub-cellular and supercellular level. At the sub-cellular level, we develop a model to study how cytoskeletal bundles arise in animal cells. At the supercellular level, we study the how pollen tubes, the motile carrier of plant sperm, change their growth in response to ovules present on the media. A fundamental question in subcellular motility is how proteins self-organize into structures capable of generating or responding to the forces. Motility is largely the result of the cytoskeleton, a network of stiff, dynamic filaments composed of the protein actin and many proteins that bind to it (Pollard et al., 2000). Many of these actin-binding proteins are involved in cross-linking the network of filaments, and variations in their local concentrations are known to cause changes in the network topology (Pollard & Cooper, 1986; Svitkina et al., 2003; Mejillano et al., 2004). Chapter 2 focuses on a series of related in vitro experiments (Vignjevic et al., 2003; Haviv et al., 2006) that show how the protein fascin affects a transition between a low-density, highly-branched network and a high-density tightly bundled network. We present a novel lattice model of these in vitro experiments. At each site on this lattice, the mean filament direction is represented as a finite set of directions, using a Potts-like spin variable (Potts, 1952). The processes of polymerization and branching are introduced with facilitation rules, which control which sites are able to change state flipping spins, and bundling is introduced as an energetic coupling between adjacent sites of the same spin. We use this model to investigate whether bundle formation can result from collisions of growing filaments alone, or whether relaxation of pre-existing filaments is needed for sizable bundles to form. To this end, we present an analysis of how these bundles are nucleated on the lattice, and how the size of the bead in the experiment will affect the number of bundles present. Currently, it is too computationally expensive for a simulation to study both kinetic and thermal bundle formation, and in Chapter 3, we present an algorithm to study filament-filament collisions that shows promise in overcoming computational limitations. At the supercellular level, one fundamental question for cell motility is how cells are guided in processes that range from stem-cell wound response to slime-mold feeding. In Chapter 4, we focus on guidance in the plant reproductive system, where plant biologists have long speculated about the mechanisms that guide pollen tubes to ovules. By combining microscopy, quantitative analysis, and modeling we have extended recent semi-in vitro work to quantitatively analyze how pollen tubes growing on an artificial medium respond to dissected ovules placed on the medium, and probe the mechanisms responsible for the response. Our analysis indicates that pollen tubes are more attracted to ovules incubated on an artificial medium for longer times. To understand this attraction, we defined a metric than measures how pollen tubes turn in response to an ovule. Analysis of this metric demonstrate that the turns pollen tubes make are consistent with following a gradient, and that pollen tubes show a significant turning response at distances of 100-150 ¼m, which are longer than previously reported. Our data also show that pollen tubes slow their rate of growth near micropyles of functional ovules and that the distance where slowing begins increases with the incubation time of the ovule. To probe the mechanisms suggested by this data, we developed a stochastic model for pollen tube growth in which pollen tubes turn in response to a difference in the fraction of theoretical receptors bound by a ligand across the two side of a tube tip. The attractant was modeled by assuming that it was continuously released by the ovules, and that it diffused isotropically on the media. Simulations showed that this model recapitulates many of the features seen in vitro, and gave an estimate of the diffusion constant of the attractant. Further, they show how slower rates of growth near the micropyle affected guidance: slower rates greatly increase the ability of pollen tubes to target ovules successfully. References Haviv, L., Brill-Karniely, Y., Mahaffy, R., Backouche, F., Ben-Shaul, A., Pollard, T. D. & Bernheim-Groswasser, A. (2006). Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. USA 103, 4906-4911. Mejillano, M. R., ichiro Kojima, S., Applewhite, D. A., Gertler, F. B., Svitkina, T. M. & Borisy, G. G. (2004). Cell 118, 363-73. Pollard, T. D., Blanchoin, L. & Mullins, R. D. (2000). Annual Review of Biophysical Biomolecular Structure 29, 545-576. Pollard, T. D. & Cooper, J. A. (1986). Annu Rev Biochem 55, 987-1035. Potts, R. B. (1952). Proc. Cambridge Philos. Soc. 48, 106-109. Svitkina, T. M., Bulanova, E. A., Chaga, O. Y., Vignjevic, D. M., Kojima, S., Vasiliev, J. M. & Borisy, G. G. (2003). J. Cell Biol. 160, 409-421. Vignjevic, D., Yarar, D., Welch, M. D., Peloquin, J., Svitkina, T. & Borisy, G. G. (2003). J. Cell Biol. 160, 951-962.

Stephens, L., et al. (2008). "Moving towards a better understanding of chemotaxis." Curr Biol 18(11): R485-R494.
	Eukaryotic cells are thought to move across supporting surfaces through a combination of coordinated processes: polarisation; extension of dynamic protrusions from a leading edge; adhesion-associated stabilisation of some protrusions; centripetal pulling against those leading adhesions; and de-adhesion at the rear. Gradients of extracellular ligands can be detected by cells and then used to guide them either towards the source (in the case of a chemoattractant) or away from the source (in the case of a chemorepellent) - such migration is termed chemotaxis. Recent work suggests that chemotaxis probably emerges from the ability of cells to spatially encode extracellular gradients of ligands, a process for which phosphoinositide 3'-kinase (PI3K) signals alone are insufficient, and to use that vectorial information to bias movement by enhancing the survival, and not the formation, of the protrusions that experience the greatest stimulation.

Siltberg-Liberles, J., et al. (2008). "The phylogeny of the aromatic amino acid hydroxylases revisited by characterizing phenylalanine hydroxylase from Dictyostelium discoideum." Gene 427(1-2): 86-92.
	The social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum contains only one aromatic amino acid hydroxylase (AAAH) gene compared to at least three in metazoans. As shown in this work this gene codes for a phenylalanine hydroxylase (DictyoPAH) and phylogenetic analysis places this enzyme close to the precursor AAAHs, aiding to define the evolutionary history of the AAAH family. DictyoPAH shows significant similarities to other eukaryote PAH, but it exhibits higher activity with tetrahydrodictyopterin (DH4) than with tetrahydrobiopterin (BH4) as cofactor. DH4 is an abundant tetrahydropterin in D. discoideum while BH4 is the natural cofactor of the AAAHs in mammals. Moreover, DictyoPAH is devoid of the characteristic regulatory mechanisms of mammalian PAH such as positive cooperativity for L-Phe and activation by preincubation with the substrate. Analysis of the few active site substitutions between DictyoPAH and mammalian PAH, including mutant expression analysis, reveals potential structural determinants for allosteric regulation.

Sillo, A., et al. (2008). "Genome-wide transcriptional changes induced by phagocytosis or growth on bacteria in Dictyostelium." BMC Genomics 9: 291.
	BACKGROUND: Phagocytosis plays a major role in the defense of higher organisms against microbial infection and provides also the basis for antigen processing in the immune response. Cells of the model organism Dictyostelium are professional phagocytes that exploit phagocytosis of bacteria as the preferred way to ingest food, besides killing pathogens. We have investigated Dictyostelium differential gene expression during phagocytosis of non-pathogenic bacteria, using DNA microarrays, in order to identify molecular functions and novel genes involved in phagocytosis. RESULTS: The gene expression profiles of cells incubated for a brief time with bacteria were compared with cells either incubated in axenic medium or growing on bacteria. Transcriptional changes during exponential growth in axenic medium or on bacteria were also compared. We recognized 443 and 59 genes that are differentially regulated by phagocytosis or by the different growth conditions (growth on bacteria vs. axenic medium), respectively, and 102 genes regulated by both processes. Roughly one third of the genes are up-regulated compared to macropinocytosis and axenic growth. Functional annotation of differentially regulated genes with different tools revealed that phagocytosis induces profound changes in carbohydrate, amino acid and lipid metabolism, and in cytoskeletal components. Genes regulating translation and mitochondrial biogenesis are mostly up-regulated. Genes involved in sterol biosynthesis are selectively up-regulated, suggesting a shift in membrane lipid composition linked to phagocytosis. Very few changes were detected in genes required for vesicle fission/fusion, indicating that the intracellular traffic machinery is mostly in common between phagocytosis and macropinocytosis. A few putative receptors, including GPCR family 3 proteins, scaffolding and adhesion proteins, components of signal transduction and transcription factors have been identified, which could be part of a signalling complex regulating phagocytosis and adaptational downstream responses. CONCLUSION: The results highlight differences between phagocytosis and macropinocytosis, and provide the basis for targeted functional analysis of new candidate genes and for comparison studies with transcriptomes during infection with pathogenic bacteria.

Shpakov, A. O. and M. N. Pertseva (2008). "Signaling systems of lower eukaryotes and their evolution." Int Rev Cell Mol Biol 269: 151-282.
	Making progress in the study of hormone-sensitive signaling systems in vertebrates and human requires a better understanding of how chemosignaling systems in lower eukaryotes originated and how molecular mechanisms of signal transduction via these systems function. This review is devoted to the structural-functional organization of chemosignaling systems and their components in unicellular organisms such as Dictyostelium discoideum, yeasts and related fungi, flagellates, and ciliates. The attention is focused on receptors of the serpentine type, heterotrimeric GTP-binding proteins and adenylyl and guanylyl cyclases, generators of cAMP and cGMP, present in various forms in a majority of eukaryotic signaling systems coupled with G proteins. Signaling systems involving the receptor component not coupled with G proteins, the receptor forms of adenylyl and guanylyl cyclases of Trypanosoma and ciliates, in particular, are also analyzed. A comparison of signal transduction systems of lower and higher eukaryotes revealed a number of peculiarities and similarities between them. The problem of evolution of chemosignaling systems in lower eukaryotes is viewed through the authors' hypothesis about the prokaryotic genesis of the systems.

Shpak, M., et al. (2008). "The phylogeny and evolution of deoxyribonuclease II: an enzyme essential for lysosomal DNA degradation." Mol. Phylogenet. Evol. 47: 841-854.
	
Shina, M. C. and A. A. Noegel (2008). "Invertebrate coronins." Subcell Biochem 48: 88-97.
	Coronins are highly conserved among species, but their function is far from being understood in detail. Here we will introduce members of the family of coronin like proteins from Drosophila melanogaster, Caenorhabditis elegans and the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum. Genetic data from D. discoideum and D. melanogaster revealed that coronins in general are important regulators of many actin-dependent processes.

Shimada, N., et al. (2008). "GBF-dependent family genes morphologically suppress the partially active Dictyostelium STATa strain." Devel. Genes Evol. 218: 55-68.
	
Shibata, T. and M. Ueda (2008). "Noise generation, amplification and propagation in chemotactic signaling systems of living cells." Biosystems 93(1-2): 126-132.
	Theoretical considerations of stochastic signal transduction in living cells have revealed the gain-fluctuation relation, which provides a theoretical framework to describe quantitatively how noise is generated, amplified and propagated along a signaling cascade in living cells. We chose the chemotactic signaling of bacteria and eukaryotic cells as a typical example of noisy signal transduction and applied the gain-fluctuation relation to these signaling systems in order to analyze the effects of noise on signal transduction. Comparing our theoretical analysis with the experimental results of chemotaxis in bacteria Escherichia coli and eukaryote Dictyostelium discoideum revealed that noise in signal transduction systems limits the cells' chemotactic ability and contributes to their behavioral variability. Based on the kinetic properties of signaling molecules in living cells, the gain-fluctuation relation can quantitatively explain stochastic cellular behaviors.

Shaulsky, G. (2008). "The cheatin' amoeba." Scientist 22(7): 30-36.
	
Shanina, N. A., et al. (2008). "[High molecular weight protein detected in higher plant cells by antibodies against dynein is associated with vesicular organelles including Golgi apparatus]." Ontogenez 39(1): 28-38.
	The cytoplasmic dynein is a multisubunit complex driving organelles along microtubules to their minus-end. We used antibodies against two functional domains (motor and microtubule-binding) of one of principal components of the complex--dynein heavy chain of slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum--to test root meristem cells of wheat Triticum aestivum. The antibodies reacted with a high molecular weight protein (> 500 kDa) in the total cell extract and the band recognized by the antibodies in plant extracts had a lower electrophoretic mobility than the high molecular weight band of mammalian dynein. Antibodies coupled to protein A-Sepharose precipitated the high molecular weight protein from the purified cell extracts. Immunocytochemical analysis demonstrated that the antigen recognized by antibodies against dynein heavy chains is associated with the vesicles whose localization depends on the cell cycle stage. The antigen-positive vesicles were localized to the perinuclear region in interphase and early prophase, to the spindle periphery and to spindle pole region during mitosis, and to the interzonal region in the period of fragmoplast and cell plate formation. Some antigen-positive vesicles also reacted with antibodies against Golgi protein markers. The obtained data indicate that higher plant cells contain a high molecular weight protein interacting with antibodies against the motor and microtubules-binding domains of Dictyostelium dynein heavy chain. The revealed antigen was associated with the vesicular structures in the cytoplasm including the Golgi apparatus.

Sforzini, S., et al. (2008). "Use of highly sensitive sublethal stress responses in the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum for an assessment of freshwater quality." Sci Total Environ 395(2-3): 101-108.
	In this work, the sensitivity of a battery of tests on the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum has been assessed within a freshwater toxicity study. The results obtained from the evaluation of survival and replication rate of D. discoideum were compared to those derived with a series of widely used tests for freshwater toxicity assessment, i. e. bioassays using Vibrio fischeri, Daphnia magna and Pseudokirchneriella subcapitata. The effects on sublethal endpoints, i.e. lysosomal membrane stability (LMS) and endocytotic rate, were analysed in conjunction with high-level endpoints to verify the potential to make a typical bioassay more sensitive. The field ecotoxicological investigation employing D. discoideum is part of a monitoring study assessing environmental quality of the Bormida River (Italy), subjected until recently to a chronic industrial pollution. The survey was carried out at several stations (upstream and downstream of a chemical factory outlet) in two different periods. In 2002, the results of chemical analyses performed on river water indicated no contamination. The ecotoxicological data obtained in this period showed that no evidence of biological effects was observed using V. fischeri and D. magna bioassays. In spite of the previous classical acute toxicity tests, significant differences in cell viability of D. discoideum were found. By analysing the effects measured on LMS and endocytotic rate, more relevant changes were observed for these sublethal stress biomarkers compared to survival. The chronic toxicity data showed significant changes in cell growth both of P. subcapitata and D. discoideum. Nevertheless, more sensitive and rapid responses were obtained when assessing the effects of exposure on D. discoideum. The chemical and ecotoxicological data obtained in 2006 indicated a full recovery of the quality of the river water (neither contamination nor toxicity found). Altogether, the results reported in this study underline that the use of a battery of biomarkers in conjunction with high-level endpoints may help follow the pollutant-induced stress syndrome in the organisms from early sublethal effects to starting mortality.

Seo, M. C., et al. (2008). "Discoidin domain receptor 1 mediates collagen-induced inflammatory activation of microglia in culture." J Neurosci Res 86(5): 1087-1095.
	Discoidin domain receptor 1 (DDR1) is a nonintegrin collagen receptor tyrosine kinase with an extracellular domain homologous to discoidin 1 of a soil-living amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum. We have previously demonstrated that DDR1 mediates collagen-induced nitric oxide production in J774A.1 murine macrophages. Because collagen is one of the main components of extracellular matrix in the central nervous system, we hypothesized that collagen also induces inflammatory activation of brain microglia, and DDR1 may mediate collagen-induced microglial activation. Using BV-2 mouse microglial cells and mouse primary microglial cultures, we have demonstrated that (1) collagen induces inflammatory activation of microglia as evidenced by production of nitric oxide, expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase, COX-2, CD40, and matrix metalloproteinase-9; (2) DDR1 is expressed in microglia and is phosphorylated by collagen treatment; and (3) collagen-induced microglial activation is abrogated by DDR1 blockade but not by integrin neutralization. We have further shown that p38 MAPK, c-Jun N-terminal kinase, and nuclear factor-kappa B are involved in the collagen-DDR1-induced microglial activation. Our results suggest that collagen can induce inflammatory activation of brain microglia and that DDR1 mediates this effect of collagen in an integrin-independent manner.

Seo, J. H., et al. (2008). Glutathione is essential to initiate development in Dictyostelium discoideum. Febs j.
	Introduction: Glutathione is the most abundant non-protein thiolcontaining
compound and known as a major source of reducing
equivalents in eukaryotes. In Dictyostelium discoideum glutathione is
required for growth and development. Disruption of gcsA encoding cglutamylcysteine
synthetase (GCS), an essential enzyme in glutathione
biosynthesis, resulted in glutathione auxotrophy and failed to develop.
Methods: Cellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) level was measured
by using 2,7-dichlorofluorescin diacetate (DCFH-DA) and detected by
a fluorescence spectrophotometer. And concentration of intracellular
methylglyoxal was analyzed by quantification of quinoxaline, the derivative
of methylglyoxal, with high performance liquid chromatography
(HPLC).
Results: The transcriptional expression of gcsA was induced as aggregation
progressed. To investigate roles of glutathione in development
of D. discoideum, Cellular ROS level was measured. In KAx3 cells, cellular
ROS level was increased as soon as the nutrition exhausted but in
a short time the level was decreased. The cellular ROS level of GCSnull
mutants was higher and sustained longer than KAx3 cells. And
interestingly as D. discoideum started to develop, the concentration of
intracellular methylglyoxal was decreased in both KAx3 and GCS-null
cells. While the level of methylglyoxal in KAx3 cells decreased gradually,
the level of methylglyoxal in GCS-null mutants increased.
Conclusions: According to the above results we hypothesized that
there might be correlations between intracellular ROS, methylglyoxal
and glutathione during early development of D. discoideum. The study
of ROS and methylglyoxal in GCS-null mutants could help to understand
the transition from growth to development in D. discoideum.

Seale, K. T., et al. (2008). "Mirrored pyramidal wells for simultaneous multiple vantage point microscopy." J Microsc 232(1): 1-6.
	We report a novel method for obtaining simultaneous images from multiple vantage points of a microscopic specimen using size-matched microscopic mirrors created from anisotropically etched silicon. The resulting pyramidal wells enable bright-field and fluorescent side-view images, and when combined with z-sectioning, provide additional information for 3D reconstructions of the specimen. We have demonstrated the 3D localization and tracking over time of the centrosome of a live Dictyostelium discoideum. The simultaneous acquisition of images from multiple perspectives also provides a five-fold increase in the theoretical collection efficiency of emitted photons, a property which may be useful for low-light imaging modalities such as bioluminescence, or low abundance surface-marker labelling.

Schnittler, M. and J. Tesmer (2008). "A habitat colonisation model for spore-dispersed organisms - Does it work with eumycetozoans?" Mycol Res 112: 697-707.
	Spore productivities and establishment probabilities of eumycetozoans were estimated and compared with quantitative data obtained from field surveys, using series of cultures of a given substrate. Spore numbers per spore case were found to increase from one to four in protostelids to up to 10(5)-10(6) in myxomycetes, whereas average spore size decreased slightly from 14.8 mu m for protostelids to 10.3 mu m in myxomycetes. Spore numbers of fructifications calculated from dimensions of spores and fruit bodies were in good agreement with direct counts carried out for six species of myxomycetes. A colonisation model is presented that estimates frequencies (as a percent of successfully colonized habitat islands), which is independent of a given density of spore rain and the sexual system of the species being considered. Whereas asexual species need a minimum spore rain of ca 0.7 spores per habitat island to reach a frequency of 50 %, this figure is at least 2.4-fold higher for sexual species, depending from the incompatibility system assumed. Data from cultures indicate that the maximum potential spore rain is usually three orders of magnitude higher than the minimum figure required to create the observed frequencies. Eumycetozoans seem to follow the evolutionary trends predicted by the model. Species with sexual reproductive systems produce often more spores than asexual ones; many morphospecies haven sexual and asexual strains; and back-conversion from sexual to asexual reproduction occurs occasionally. (C) 2008 The British Mycological Society. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

Schmauch, C. and M. Maniak (2008). "Competition between targeting signals in hybrid proteins provides information on their relative in vivo affinities for subcellular compartments." Eur. J. Cell Biol. 87: 57-68.
	
Schiller, B., et al. (2008). Developmental Changes in N-Glycan Fucosylation in Dictyostelium. Glycobiology.
	Developmental and cohesion defects in Dictyostelium discoideum
have been associated with alterations in the glycosylation pattern.
Therefore the protein-bound N-glycans have been subject to
studies for more than 20 years, so far exact structures have not
been determined. It has been suggested that core α 1,3 fucose
epitopes decrease during development, while addition of
“peripheral fucose” increases. N-glycan preparations as well as
crude lysates were hence prepared of amoeba during growth and
development. Results from Western blotting using an antibody
specific for α 1,3-fucose indicated the presence of this epitope
throughout development, even suggesting an increase. This data
though was contradicted by RP-HPLC, NP-HPLC and massspectrometry
analysis. We thus postulate that the amount of core α
1,3-fucosylated glycans does not increase during development, and
believe the lower binding of antibody to lysates from midlogphase
cells to be due to the highly unusual structure of the major
glycan assembled during growth. This novel glycan contains both
inter- and bisecting N-acetylglucosamine residues as well as core α
1,3-fucose. The amount of this large oligomannosidic glycan
decreases as the cells differentiate while smaller fucosylated
glycans appear, some of them also carrying inter- and bisecting Nacetylglucosamines.
It is well known that especially fucosylated
structures are associated with numerous human diseases. Studying
the alteration of glycans carrying fucose epitopes during the
development of single Dictyostelium discoideum cells to
multicellular fruiting bodies with distinct cell types has the
capability to help to shed light on mechanisms such as cellrecognition
and adhesion.

Sawarkar, R., et al. (2008). "Heat shock protein 90 regulates development in Dictyostelium discoideum." J Mol Biol 383(1): 24-35.
	Cytosolic heat shock protein 90 (Hsp90) has been implicated in diverse biological processes such as protein folding, cell cycle control, signal transduction, development, and morphological evolution. Model systems available for studying Hsp90 function either allow ease of manipulation for biochemical studies or facilitate a phenomenological study of its role in influencing phenotype. In this work, we have explored the use of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum to examine cellular functions of Hsp90 in relation to its multicellular development. In addition to cloning, purification, biochemical characterization, and examination of its crystal structure, our studies, using a pharmacological inhibitor of Hsp90, demonstrate a role for the cytoplasmic isoform (HspD) in D. discoideum development. Inhibition of HspD function using geldanamycin (GA) resulted in delayed aggregation and arrest of D. discoideum development at the 'mound' stage. Crystal structure of the amino-terminal domain of HspD showed a binding pocket similar to that described for yeast Hsp90. Fluorescence spectroscopy, as well as GA-coupled beads affinity pulldown, confirmed a specific interaction between HspD and GA. The results presented here provide an important insight into the function of HspD in D. discoideum development and emphasize the potential of the cellular slime mold to serve as an effective model for studying the many roles of Hsp90 at cellular and organismal levels.

Sawai, S., et al. (2008). "High-throughput analysis of spatio-temporal dynamics in Dictyostelium." Genome Biol. 8: R144 (115 pages).
	
Satulovsky, J., et al. (2008). "Exploring the control circuit of cell migration by mathematical modeling." Biophys. J. 94: 3671-3683.
	
Sasaki, K., et al. (2008). "An immediate-early gene, srsA: its involvement in the starvation response that initiates differentiation of Dictyostelium cells." Differentiation 76(10): 1093-1103.
	When nutrients are depleted, Dictyostelium cells undergo cell cycle arrest and initiate a differentiation program for survival. We have found a novel gene, srsA, which is rapidly expressed in the first 5 min following the removal of nutrients and is turned off within an hour. This gene encodes a small protein with no significant similarity to previously characterized proteins. Disruption of srsA results in delayed expression of the early genes acaA and carA that encode adenylyl cyclase and the cAMP receptor necessary for chemotactic aggregation, respectively. Streaming is delayed several hours and the aggregates are larger than normal in the mutant strains. These phenotypes are cell-autonomous. Overexpression of srsA also results in delayed aggregation. Some of the slugs of the srsA(OE) strains showed stalked migration reminiscent of the slugs of the related species Dictyostelium mucoroides. The terminal structures formed by srsA(OE) cells were grossly abnormal and contained very few viable spores. When cells overexpressing srsA were developed together with an excess of wild-type cells, the fruiting bodies were still abnormal, indicating that the mutant cells have a dominant effect on late development. These findings suggest that srsA may be involved in both the starvation response and late differentiation.

Santorelli, L. A., et al. (2008). "Facultative cheater mutants reveal the genetic complexity of cooperation in social amoebae." Nature 451: 1107-1110.
	
Saito, T., et al. (2008). "DIF-1 induces the basal disc of the Dictyostelium fruiting body." Dev Biol 317(2): 444-453.
	The polyketide DIF-1 induces Dictyostelium amoebae to form stalk cells in culture. To better define its role in normal development, we examined the phenotype of a mutant blocking the first step of DIF-1 synthesis, which lacks both DIF-1 and its biosynthetic intermediate, dM-DIF-1 (des-methyl-DIF-1). Slugs of this polyketide synthase mutant (stlB(-)) are long and thin and rapidly break up, leaving an immotile prespore mass. They have approximately 30% fewer prestalk cells than their wild-type parent and lack a subset of anterior-like cells, which later form the outer basal disc. This structure is missing from the fruiting body, which perhaps in consequence initiates culmination along the substratum. The lower cup is rudimentary at best and the spore mass, lacking support, slips down the stalk. The dmtA(-) methyltransferase mutant, blocked in the last step of DIF-1 synthesis, resembles the stlB(-) mutant but has delayed tip formation and fewer prestalk-O cells. This difference may be due to accumulation of dM-DIF-1 in the dmtA(-) mutant, since dM-DIF-1 inhibits prestalk-O differentiation. Thus, DIF-1 is required for slug migration and specifies the anterior-like cells forming the basal disc and much of the lower cup; significantly the DIF-1 biosynthetic pathway may supply a second signal - dM-DIF-1.

Russell, T. R. (2008). Cloning & cellular characterization of myosin II heavy chain kinase D from Dictyostelium discoideum. United States -- North Carolina, The University of North Carolina at Greensboro.
	The thesis research presented here focused on studies of a novel myosin II heavy chain kinase D (MHCK D) expressed in Dictyostelium discoideum cells. MHCK D is made up of four distinct domains: a short coiled-coil region (Coil), a region rich in serine, asparagine, proline, & glutamine residues (SNPQ), a kinase catalytic domain (Cat), and a WD-repeat segment (WD). A major component of this project was to amplify the Catalytic and WD repeat domains (Cat-WD) from genomic DNA. The Cat-WD truncation of MHCK D was cloned into pTX-GFP & pTX-Flag plasmids for expression in Dictyostelium cells. The recombinant plasmids were electroporated into Dictyostelium cells to over-express the fusion protein (GFP, or flag-tagged). To determine if MHCK D does phosphorylate the Myosin heavy chain, which in turn drives bi-polar filament disassembly, the phenotype of cells over-expressing the Cat-WD domain were compared to the phenotype of Myosin II-null cells and non-recombinant wild type cells. Cells over-expressing the Cat-WD domain from MHCK D, showed a phenotype similar to Myosin II-null cells, indicating that the Cat-WD domain plays a role in Myosin II bi-polar filament disassembly resulting from phosphorylation of the myosin heavy chain. Another aim of the thesis research focused on expression of the mhkd gene during the multi-cellular development cycle of Dictyostelium, using Reverse Transcriptase-PCR (RT-PCR). The results indicate that mhkd is expressed throughout the multi-cellular development cycle, as well as during the vegetative growth phase of Dictyostelium. In summary, the results reveal that the Cat-WD domain of MHCK D drives Myosin II bi-polar filament disassembly leading to defects in cytokinesis, and is expressed in both vegetative cells as well as cells undergoing the multi-cellular development cycle. These studies provide a basis for future research focused on activation, localization, and substrate targeting of MHCK D.

Romeralo, M. and C. Lado (2008). "The biodiversity of dictyostelids in a Spanish Biosphere Reserve." Nova Hedwigia 87(1-2): 247-259.
	The results of a biodiversity survey of the dictyostelid cellular slime moulds from Somiedo Natural Park and Biosphere Reserve (Asturias, Spain) are presented. Surface soil samples were collected during 2005 from different forests and were plated out for cellular slime moulds. During this study 12 species of dictyostelids were isolated, belonging to two of the three recognized genera of the group, Dictyostelium and Polysphondylium. Comments on their taxonomic characters, diversity and distribution, and micrographs of relevant morphological details are included. Dictyostelium macrocephalum is reported for the first time from Europe and Polysphondylium violaceum is a new record for the Mediterranean area.

Rollins, A. W. (2008). Biogeography, microhabitat associations and structure of the myxomycete and dictyostelid communities associated with North American grasslands. United States -- Arkansas, University of Arkansas.
	The distribution and ecology of two groups of eumycetozoans, the dictyostelids and the myxomycetes, were, studied in nine study areas that spanned both longitudinal and latitudinal gradients across the grasslands of North America. Several ecological patterns were observed for both groups. Overall, the two groups were found to be common components of the biota of grassland ecosystem. Dictyostelid species richness, diversity, and abundance decreased from the tall grasslands to short grasslands, presumably in response to the gradient of decreasing precipitation. The assemblages of species associated with open grasslands and forests displayed appreciable differences. Parameters associated with soil chemistry and disturbance regimes were found to affect the dictyostelid assemblages. Myxomycete assemblages were found to become more dissimilar westward along the precipitation gradient. Furthermore, there was a surprising difference in the frequency of myxomycete recovery between grass and forb microhabitats. In addition, the myxomycete assemblages associated with open grasslands and gallery forests were quite different. The results of the present study support the importance of the microhabitats in determining the assemblages of species present at a particular locality.

Rohlk, C., et al. (2008). "Properties of the Kinesin-1 motor DdKif3 from Dictyostelium discoideum." Eur. J. Cell Biol. 87: 234-249.
	
Rodriguez, M., et al. (2008). "MPL1, a novel phosphatase with leucine-rich repeats, is essential for proper ERK2 phosphorylation and cell motility." Euk Cell 7(6): 958-966.
	The novel Dictyostelium phosphatase MPL1 contains six leucine-rich repeats at the amino-terminal end and a phosphatase domain at the carboxyl end. Similarly architectured phosphatases exist among other protozoa, such as Entamoeba histolytica, Leishmania major, and Trypanosoma cruzi. MPL1 was strongly induced after 5 h of development; ablation by homologous recombination led to defective streaming and aggregation during development. In addition, cyclic AMP (cAMP)-pulsed mpl1(-) cells showed reduced random and directional motility. At the molecular level, mpl1(-) cells displayed higher prestimulus and persistent poststimulus ERK2 phosphorylation in response to cAMP stimulation. Consistent with their phenotype of persistent ERK2 phosphorylation, mpl1(-) cells also displayed an aberrant pattern of cAMP production, resembling that of the regA(-) cells. Reintroduction of a full-length MPL1 into mpl1(-) cells restored aggregation, ERK2 regulation, random and directional motility, and cAMP production similar to wild-type cells. We propose that MPL1 is a novel phosphatase essential for proper regulation of ERK2 phosphorylation and optimal motility during development.

Rivero, F. (2008). "Endocytosis and the actin cytoskeleton in Dictyostelium discoideum." Int Rev Cell Mol Biol 267: 343-397.
	Endocytosis, an essential process of all eukaryotic cells, requires the actin cytoskeleton for proper functioning. The soil amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum is well known for its contribution to the actin cytoskeleton field. The genetic tractability and the availability of appropriate tools have made of Dictyostelium an attractive model for studies of endocytosis and vesicle trafficking as well. These tools include a large palette of fluorescent protein fusions and the combination of improved fractionation methods with high throughput techniques along with the recently propagated use of the amoeba a host for microbial pathogens. In this review I discuss in a comprehensive manner the evidence accumulated in the literature towards a participation of components of the microfilament system of D. discoideum in endocytic trafficking and conclude with a model that describes the sequence of events and the components involved during the well-investigated uptake phase of the endocytic process in the soil amoeba.

Ritchie, A. V., et al. (2008). "From drought sensing to developmental control: evolution of cyclic AMP signaling in social amoebas." Mol Biol Evol 25(10): 2109-2118.
	Amoebas and other protists commonly encyst when faced with environmental stress. Although little is known of the signaling pathways that mediate encystation, the analogous process of spore formation in dictyostelid social amoebas is better understood. In Dictyostelium discoideum, secreted cyclic AMP (cAMP) mediates the aggregation of starving amoebas and induces the differentiation of prespore cells. Intracellular cAMP acting on cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) triggers the maturation of spores and prevents their germination under the prevalent conditions of high osmolality in the spore head. The osmolyte-activated adenylate cyclase, ACG, produces cAMP for prespore differentiation and inhibition of spore germination. To retrace the origin of ACG function, we investigated ACG gene conservation and function in species that span the dictyostelid phylogeny. ACG genes, osmolyte-activated ACG activity, and osmoregulation of spore germination were detected in species that represent the 4 major groups of Dictyostelia. Unlike the derived species D. discoideum, many basal Dictyostelia have retained the ancestral mechanism of encystation from solitary amoebas. In these species and in solitary amoebas, encystation is independently triggered by starvation or by high osmolality. Osmolyte-induced encystation was accompanied by an increase in cAMP and prevented by inhibition of PKA, indicating that ACG and PKA activation mediate this response. We propose that high osmolality signals drought in soil amoebas and that developmental cAMP signaling in the Dictyostelia has evolved from this stress response.

Rericha, E. C. and C. A. Parent (2008). "Steering in quadruplet: the complex signaling pathways directing chemotaxis." Sci Signal 1(22): pe26.
	Studies in the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum reveal that signaling cascades coordinating chemotactic directional sensing and migration are complex, with redundant pathways emerging as cells differentiate. Lack of accumulation of the leading-edge marker phosphatidylinositol-3,4,5-trisphosphate can be compensated by a pathway containing phospholipase A2 (PLA2) in early developed cells and guanylyl cyclase (GC) in later developed, polarized cells. Because numerous signaling networks operational during Dictyostelium chemotaxis are conserved in mammalian cells, PLA2 and GC pathways may also be effective in higher eukaryotes, providing avenues for future research.

Reichl, E. M., et al. (2008). "Interactions between myosin and actin crosslinkers control cytokinesis contractility dynamics and mechanics." Curr Biol 18(7): 471-480.
	INTRODUCTION: Contractile networks are fundamental to many cellular functions, particularly cytokinesis and cell motility. Contractile networks depend on myosin-II mechanochemistry to generate sliding force on the actin polymers. However, to be contractile, the networks must also be crosslinked by crosslinking proteins, and to change the shape of the cell, the network must be linked to the plasma membrane. Discerning how this integrated network operates is essential for understanding cytokinesis contractility and shape control. Here, we analyzed the cytoskeletal network that drives furrow ingression in Dictyostelium. RESULTS: We establish that the actin polymers are assembled into a meshwork and that myosin-II does not assemble into a discrete ring in the Dictyostelium cleavage furrow of adherent cells. We show that myosin-II generates regional mechanics by increasing cleavage furrow stiffness and slows furrow ingression during late cytokinesis as compared to myoII nulls. Actin crosslinkers dynacortin and fimbrin similarly slow furrow ingression and contribute to cell mechanics in a myosin-II-dependent manner. By using FRAP, we show that the actin crosslinkers have slower kinetics in the cleavage furrow cortex than in the pole, that their kinetics differ between wild-type and myoII null cells, and that the protein dynamics of each crosslinker correlate with its impact on cortical mechanics. CONCLUSIONS: These observations suggest that myosin-II along with actin crosslinkers establish local cortical tension and elasticity, allowing for contractility independent of a circumferential cytoskeletal array. Furthermore, myosin-II and actin crosslinkers may influence each other as they modulate the dynamics and mechanics of cell-shape change.

Reichl, E. M. (2008). Cytokinesis contraction through the remodeling of a disordered actin network. United States -- Maryland, The Johns Hopkins University.
	Contractile networks are fundamental to many cellular functions, particularly cytokinesis and cell motility. Here, we analyze a contractile network that drives furrow ingression during Dictyostelium cytokinesis. The ultimate goal of all signaling pathways in cytokinesis is to control the mechanical separation of the mother cell into two daughter cells. Because of the intrinsic mechanical nature of cytokinesis, it is essential to fully understand how cell shapes and material properties of the cell are generated, how these shapes and material properties create force and how motor proteins, such as myosin-II, modify the system to achieve successful cytokinesis. Contrary to the assumptions of the contractile ring hypothesis, these equatorial actin and myosin-II networks are highly disordered, similar to observations in mammalian cells. Myosin-II generates regional mechanics by increasing cleavage furrow cortical viscoelasticity and slows furrow ingression during late cytokinesis as compared to myoII mutant cleavage furrows. Crosslinking proteins similarly contribute to cell mechanics and have spatially distinct kinetics with the slower crosslinkers found in the cleavage furrow cytoskeleton. The total F-actin concentration must also be regulated by proteins such as the actin-severing protein cofilin. Thereby, myosin-II and actin crosslinkers increase equatorial cortical tension and generate a more elastic network, allowing for contractility in the absence of a circumferential, highly ordered cytoskeletal array.

Rapuru, S. K. (2008). Chemical composition and anti-proliferative activity of several medicinal plants. United States -- North Carolina, The University of North Carolina at Greensboro.
	Plants are valuable sources of medicinal compounds and their use for healing is well known from ancient times. Natural drugs obtained from plants represent about 25% of the prescription drug market in the United States. Plants have a long history of use in the treatment of various cancer types. Currently, 60% of the anticancer agents available in the market are derived from natural sources. Since phytoconstituents play a vital role in the discovery of various anticancer drugs, they have been chosen as the area of focus for our research. In this proposed study, four medicinal plants with reported anticancer activity were selected ( Hydrastis canadensis, Curcuma longa, Zingiber officinalis , and Alpinia officinarum ). All these plants were extracted by percolation and tested for anti-proliferative activity against Dictyostelium cells. C. longa, Z. officinalis and A. officinarum organic extracts all showed significant anti-proliferative activity in this preliminary bioassay. Of the three active extracts, the turmeric extract was chosen for further investigation because of its great historical significance and the promising results of recent phase I clinical trials. Using flash chromatography, a total of nine fractions were obtained from the complex C. longa organic extract. Curcumin in these fractions was identified and quantified using high performance liquid chromatography - electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (HPLC-ESI-MS). Other active components (demethoxycurcumin, bisdemethoxycurcumin and ar-tumerone) were also characterized using the same system. All these fractions were then tested for in vitro anti-proliferative activity against MCF-7 cells using the XTT assay to determine whether activity correlates with the presence of curcumin in the fractions, or whether other (perhaps unidentified) compounds are involved. The results indicated that the major component curcumin was responsible for the majority of the anti-proliferative activity of the complex turmeric extract. Although no synergistic activity was seen for the various constituents present in the complex extract in this case, a novel approach for probing potential synergistic or additive effects was demonstrated. This approach could be applied to future investigations of synergistic or additive activity of medicinal plants.

Rappel, W. J. and H. Levine (2008). "Receptor noise limitations on chemotactic sensing." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 105(49): 19270-19275.
	Chemotactic eukaryotic cells are able to detect chemoattractant gradients that are both shallow and have a low background concentration. Under these conditions, the noise in the number of bound receptors can be significant and needs to be taken into account in determining the directional sensing process. Here, we quantify numerically the number of bound receptors on the membrane of a disk-shaped cell by using a numerical Monte Carlo tool. The obtained time traces of the receptor occupancy can be used as inputs for any directional sensing model. We investigate the response of the local excitation global inhibition model and a recently developed balanced inactivation model. We determine a measure for the motility of the cell for each model, based on the relevant output variable, as a function of experimental parameters, resulting in several experimentally testable predictions. Furthermore, we show that these two models behave in a qualitatively different fashion when the background concentration is varied. Thus, to properly characterize the sensitivity of cells to receptor occupancy, it is not sufficient to examine the input signal. Rather, one needs to take into account the response of the second messenger pathway.

Ragaz, C., et al. (2008). "The Legionella pneumophila phosphatidylinositol-4 phosphate-binding type IV substrate SidC recruits endoplasmic reticulum vesicles to a replication-permissive vacuole." Cell Microbiol 10(12): 2416-2433.
	Legionella pneumophila, the causative agent of Legionnaires' disease, uses the intracellular multiplication/defective organelle trafficking (Icm/Dot) type IV secretion system to establish within amoebae and macrophages an endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-derived replication-permissive compartment, the Legionella-containing vacuole (LCV). The Icm/Dot substrate SidC and its paralogue SdcA anchor to LCVs via phosphatidylinositol-4 phosphate [PtdIns(4)P]. Here we identify the unique 20 kDa PtdIns(4)P-binding domain of SidC, which upon heterologous expression in Dictyostelium binds to LCVs and thus is useful as a PtdIns(4)P-specific probe. LCVs harbouring L. pneumophilaDeltasidC-sdcA mutant bacteria recruit ER and ER-derived vesicles less efficiently and carry endosomal but not lysosomal markers. The phenotypes are complemented by supplying sidC on a plasmid. L. pneumophilaDeltasidC-sdcA grows at wild-type rate in calnexin-negative LCVs, suggesting that communication with the ER is dispensable for establishing a replicative compartment. The amount of SidC and calnexin is directly proportional on isolated LCVs, and in a cell-free system, the recruitment of calnexin-positive vesicles to LCVs harbouring DeltasidC-sdcA mutant bacteria is impaired. Beads coated with purified SidC or its 70 kDa N-terminal fragment recruit ER vesicles in Dictyostelium and macrophage lysates. Our results establish SidC as an L. pneumophila effector protein, which anchors to PtdIns(4)P on LCVs and recruits ER vesicles to a replication-permissive vacuole.

Pollitt, A. Y. and R. H. Insall (2008). "Abi mutants in Dictyostelium reveal specific roles for the SCAR/WAVE complex in cytokinesis." Curr Biol 18(3): 203-210.
	Actin polymerization drives multiple cell processes involving movement and shape change. SCAR/WAVE proteins connect signaling to actin polymerization through the activation of the Arp2/3 complex. SCAR/WAVE is normally found in a complex with four other proteins: PIR121, Nap1, Abi2,and HSPC300 (Figure S1A available online) [1-3]. However,there is no consensus as to whether the complex functions as an unchanging unit or if it alters its composition in response to stimulation, as originally proposed by Edenet al. [1]. It also is unclear whether complex members exclusively regulate SCAR/WAVEs or if they have additional targets [4-6]. Here, we analyze the roles of the unique Dictyostelium Abi. We find that abiA null mutants show less severe defects in motility than do scar null cells, indicating--unexpectedly--that SCAR retains partial activity in the absence of Abi. Furthermore, abiA null mutants have a serious defect in cytokinesis, which is not seen in other SCAR complex mutants and is seen only when SCAR itself is present. Detailed examination reveals that normal cytokinesis requires SCAR activity, apparently regulated through multiple pathways.

Pieters, J. (2008). "Coronin 1 in innate immunity." Subcell Biochem 48: 116-123.
	The WD repeat containing family of coronin proteins is generally referred to as F-actin-interacting proteins. While in lower eukaryotes such as Dictyostelium discoideum, the single short coronin protein regulates several F-actin dependent processes such as motility, phagocytosis and macropinocytosis, the function of any of the seven coronin isoforms in mammals is far less understood. This chapter describes the current knowledge on mammalian coronin 1 (coronin 1A), the closest homologue to Dictyostelium short coronin that is exclusively expressed in leukocytes. Recent work based on biochemical, molecular biological and genetic analysis suggest that coronin 1 has evolved a function that is quite different from the F-actin regulatory function of Dictyostelium short coronin. Rather, mammalian coronin 1 is involved in the regulation of leukocyte specific signaling events.

Patel, H., et al. (2008). "The multi-FERM-domain-containing protein FrmA is required for turnover of paxillin-adhesion sites during cell migration of Dictyostelium." J Cell Sci 121(Pt 8): 1159-1164.
	FERM domain proteins, including talins, ERMs, FAK and certain myosins, regulate connections between the plasma membrane, cytoskeleton and extracellular matrix. Here we show that FrmA, a Dictyostelium discoideum protein containing two talin-like FERM domains, plays a major role in normal cell shape, cell-substrate adhesion and actin cytoskeleton organisation. Using total internal reflection fluorescence (TIRF) microscopy we show that FrmA-null cells are more adherent to substrate than wild-type cells because of an increased number, persistence and mislocalisation of paxillin-rich cell-substrate adhesions, which is associated with decreased motility. We show for the first time that talinA colocalises with paxillin at the distal ends of filopodia to form cell-substrate adhesions and indeed arrives prior to paxillin. After a period of colocalisation, talin leaves the adhesion site followed by paxillin. Whereas talinA-rich spots turnover prior to the arrival of the main body of the cell, paxillin-rich spots turn over as the main body of the cell passes over it. In FrmA-null cells talinA initially localises to cell-substrate adhesion sites at the distal ends of filopodia but paxillin is instead localised to stabilised adhesion sites at the periphery of the main cell body. This suggests a model for cell-substrate adhesion in Dictyostelium whereby the talin-like FERM domains of FrmA regulate the temporal and spatial control of talinA and paxillin at cell-substrate adhesion sites, which in turn controls adhesion and motility.

Palsson, E. (2008). "A 3-D model used to explore how cell adhesion and stiffness affect cell sorting and movement in multicellular systems." J Theor Biol 254(1): 1-13.
	A three-dimensional mathematical model is used to determine the effects of adhesion and cell signalling on cell movements during the aggregation and slug stages of Dictyostelium discoideum (Dd) and to visualize cell sorting. The building blocks of the model are individual deformable ellipsoidal cells, where movement depends on internal parameter state (cell size and stiffness) and on external cues from the neighboring cells, extracellular matrix, and chemical signals. Cell movement and deformation are calculated from equations of motion using the total force acting on each cell, ensuring that forces are balanced. The simulations show that the sorting patterns of prestalk and prespore cells, emerging during the slug stage, depend critically on the type of cell adhesion and not just on chemotactic differences between cells. This occurs because cell size and stiffness can prevent the otherwise faster cells from passing the slower cells. The patterns are distinctively different when the prestalk cells are more or less adhesive than the prespore cells. These simulations suggest that sorting is not solely due to differential chemotaxis, and that differences in both adhesion strength and type between different cell types play a very significant role, both in Dictyostelium and other systems.

Ostrowski, E. A., et al. (2008). "Kin discrimination increases with genetic distance in a social amoeba." PLoS Biol 6(11): e287.
	In the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum, thousands of cells aggregate upon starvation to form a multicellular fruiting body, and approximately 20% of them die to form a stalk that benefits the others. The aggregative nature of multicellular development makes the cells vulnerable to exploitation by cheaters, and the potential for cheating is indeed high. Cells might avoid being victimized if they can discriminate among individuals and avoid those that are genetically different. We tested how widely social amoebae cooperate by mixing isolates from different localities that cover most of their natural range. We show here that different isolates partially exclude one another during aggregation, and there is a positive relationship between the extent of this exclusion and the genetic distance between strains. Our findings demonstrate that D. discoideum cells co-aggregate more with genetically similar than dissimilar individuals, suggesting the existence of a mechanism that discerns the degree of genetic similarity between individuals in this social microorganism.

Nunez-Corcuera, B., et al. (2008). "A new protein carrying an NmrA-like domain is required for cell differentiation and development in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev Biol 321(2): 331-342.
	We have isolated a Dictyostelium mutant unable to induce expression of the prestalk-specific marker ecmB in monolayer assays. The disrupted gene, padA, leads to a range of phenotypic defects in growth and development. We show that padA is essential for growth, and we have generated a thermosensitive mutant allele, padA(-). At the permissive temperature, mutant cells grow poorly; they remain longer at the slug stage during development and are defective in terminal differentiation. At the restrictive temperature, growth is completely blocked, while development is permanently arrested prior to culmination. padA(-) slugs are deficient in prestalk A cell differentiation and present an abnormal ecmB expression pattern. Sequence comparisons and predicted three-dimensional structure analyses show that PadA carries an NmrA-like domain. NmrA is a negative transcriptional regulator involved in nitrogen metabolite repression in Aspergillus nidulans. PadA predicted structure shows a NAD(P)(+)-binding domain, which we demonstrate that is essential for function. We show that padA(-) development is more sensitive to ammonia than wild-type cells and two ammonium transporters, amtA and amtC, appear derepressed during padA(-) development. Our data suggest that PadA belongs to a new family of NAD(P)(+)-binding proteins that link metabolic changes to gene expression and is required for growth and normal development.

Newman, T. J. (2008). "Grid-free models of multicellular systems, with an application to large-scale vortices accompanying primitive streak formation." Curr. Top. Dev. Biol. 81: 157-182.
	
Naorem, A. and P. P. Sadhale (2008). "Identification and characterization of DdRPB4, a subunit of Dictyostelium discoideum RNA polymerase II." Biochem Biophys Res Commun 377(4): 1141-1146.
	Rpb4, the fourth largest subunit of the eukaryotic RNA polymerase II (RNAPII), is required for growth at extreme temperatures and for an appropriate response to nutrient starvation in yeast. Sequence homologs of Rpb4 are found in most sequenced genomes from yeast to humans. To elucidate the role of this subunit in nutrient starvation, we chose Dictyostelium discoideum, a soil amoeba, which responds to nutrient deprivation by undergoing a complex developmental program. Here we report the identification of homolog of Saccharomyces cerevisiae RPB4 in D. discoideum. Localization and complementation studies suggest that Rpb4 is functionally conserved. DdRPB4 transcript and protein levels are developmentally regulated. Although DdRPB4 could not be deleted, overexpression revealed that the Rpb4 protein is essential for cell survival and is regulated stringently at the post-transcriptional level in D. discoideum. Thus maintaining a critical level of Rpb4 is important for this organism.

Nakajima, A. and K. Kaneko (2008). "Regulative differentiation as bifurcation of interacting cell population." J Theor Biol 253(4): 779-787.
	In multicellular organisms, several cell states coexist. For determining each cell type, cell-cell interactions are often essential, in addition to intracellular gene expression dynamics. Based on dynamical systems theory, we propose a mechanism for cell differentiation with regulation of populations of each cell type by taking simple cell models with gene expression dynamics. By incorporating several interaction kinetics, we found that the cell models with a single intracellular positive-feedback loop exhibit a cell fate switching, with a change in the total number of cells. The number of a given cell type or the population ratio of each cell type is preserved against the change in the total number of cells, depending on the form of cell-cell interaction. The differentiation is a result of bifurcation of cell states via the intercellular interactions, while the population regulation is explained by self-consistent determination of the bifurcation parameter through cell-cell interactions. The relevance of this mechanism to development and differentiation in several multicellular systems is discussed. (C) 2008 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

Nakagawa, S., et al. (2008). "Diversity of preferred nucleotide sequences around the translation initiation codon in eukaryote genomes." Nucl Acids Res 36(3): 861-871.
	Understanding regulatory mechanisms of protein synthesis in eukaryotes is essential for the accurate annotation of genome sequences. Kozak reported that the nucleotide sequence GCCGCC (A/G)CCAUGG (AUG is the initiation codon) was frequently observed in vertebrate genes and that this 'consensus' sequence enhanced translation initiation. However, later studies using invertebrate, fungal and plant genes reported different 'consensus' sequences. In this study, we conducted extensive comparative analyses of nucleotide sequences around the initiation codon by using genomic data from 47 eukaryote species including animals, fungi, plants and protists. The analyses revealed that preferred nucleotide sequences are quite diverse among different species, but differences between patterns of nucleotide bias roughly reflect the evolutionary relationships of the species. We also found strong biases of A/G at position 23, A/C at position 22 and C at position +5 that were commonly observed in all species examined. Genes with higher expression levels showed stronger signals, suggesting that these nucleotides are responsible for the regulation of translation initiation. The diversity of preferred nucleotide sequences around the initiation codon might be explained by differences in relative contributions from two distinct patterns, GCCGCCAUG and AAAAAAAUG, which implies the presence of multiple molecular mechanisms for controlling translation initiation.

Nagayama, K., et al. (2008). "Antisense RNA inhibition of the beta subunit of the Dictyostelium discoideum mitochondrial processing peptidase induces the expression of mitochondrial proteins." Biosci Biotechnol Biochem 72(7): 1836-1846.
	We cloned and characterized a cDNA encoding the Dictyostelium discoideum beta subunit of mitochondrial processing peptidase (Ddbeta-MPP). Western blot analysis of the mitochondrial subfractions revealed that Ddbeta-MPP is located in the mitochondrial matrix and membrane, whereas Dd(alpha)-MPP, another subunit of DdMPP, is located only in the matrix. Although expression of Ddbeta-MPP mRNA is down-regulated during early development, the level of the Ddbeta-MPP protein is constant throughout the Dictyostelium life cycle. In a transformant expressing the antisense RNA of the beta-MPP gene, unexpectedly, the beta-MPP protein increased about 1.8-fold relative to the wild type, and its mRNA increased 4.5-fold. Expression of other mitochondrial proteins, alpha-MPP and Cox IV, was also induced. These results suggest that antisense RNA inhibition of the beta-MPP gene induces gene expression of mitochondrial proteins, presumably in a retrograde signaling manner. This is the pathway of the transfer of information from the mitochondria to the nucleus.

Nagasaki, A. and T. Q. Uyeda (2008). "Chemotaxis-mediated scission contributes to efficient cytokinesis in Dictyostelium." Cell Motil Cytoskeleton 65(11): 896-903.
	Interphase amoeba of Entamoeba invadens are attracted to the furrowing region of a neighboring dividing cell to assist with the division. A seemingly similar behavior has been observed in Dictyostelium discoideum, but in this case, it has not been shown whether the movements were truly directed toward the furrowing region or whether they have any relevance. We thus used myosin II-null cells, which spend more time than wild type cells in cytokinesis, and successfully demonstrated that nearly half of the division events involve the attraction of a neighbor cell to the furrowing region. Cells lacking the beta subunit of the trimeric G protein (Gbeta), which are incapable of chemotaxis, did not show such midwifery. Culturing wild type cells flattened under agarose sheets also slowed the cytokinesis process, and this allowed us to demonstrate that phosphatidylinositol trisphosphate was enriched in the anterior region of midwifing cells, consistent with the view that midwifery in D. discoideum is also chemotaxis. On substrates, while only 3.6% of wild type cells were multinucleate, 8.1% of Gbeta-null cells were multinucleate, and this was reduced to 3.4% when they were surrounded by wild type cells. Conversely, multinucleated wild type cells increased to 6.8% when they were surrounded by Gbeta-null cells. Thus, Gbeta-null cells frequently fail to divide because they cannot assist each other's division and midwifery ensures successful cytokinesis in Dictyostelium discoideum.

Nag, D. K., et al. (2008). "Disruption of four kinesin genes in Dictyostelium." BMC Cell Biol 9: 21.
	BACKGROUND: Kinesin and dynein are the two families of microtubule-based motors that drive much of the intracellular movements in eukaryotic cells. Using a gene knockout strategy, we address here the individual function(s) of four of the 13 kinesin proteins in Dictyostelium. The goal of our ongoing project is to establish a minimal motility proteome for this basal eukaryote, enabling us to contrast motor functions here with the often far more elaborate motor families in the metazoans. RESULTS: We performed individual disruptions of the kinesin genes, kif4, kif8, kif10, and kif11. None of the motors encoded by these genes are essential for development or viability of Dictyostelium. Removal of Kif4 (kinesin-7; CENP-E family) significantly impairs the rate of cell growth and, when combined with a previously characterized dynein inhibition, results in dramatic defects in mitotic spindle assembly. Kif8 (kinesin-4; chromokinesin family) and Kif10 (kinesin-8; Kip3 family) appear to cooperate with dynein to organize the interphase radial microtubule array. CONCLUSION: The results reported here extend the number of kinesin gene disruptions in Dictyostelium, to now total 10, among the 13 isoforms. None of these motors, individually, are required for short-term viability. In contrast, homologs of at least six of the 10 kinesins are considered essential in humans. Our work underscores the functional redundancy of motor isoforms in basal organisms while highlighting motor specificity in more complex metazoans. Since motor disruption in Dictyostelium can readily be combined with other motility insults and stresses, this organism offers an excellent system to investigate functional interactions among the kinesin motor family.

Muramoto, T. and J. R. Chubb (2008). "Live imaging of the Dictyostelium cell cycle reveals widespread S phase during development, a G2 bias in spore differentiation and a premitotic checkpoint." Development 135(9): 1647-1657.
	The regulation of the Dictyostelium cell cycle has remained ambiguous owing to difficulties in long-term imaging of motile cells and a lack of markers for defining cell cycle phases. There is controversy over whether cells replicate their DNA during development, and whether spores are in G1 or G2 of the cell cycle. We have introduced a live-cell S-phase marker into Dictyostelium cells that allows us to precisely define cycle phase. We show that during multicellular development, a large proportion of cells undergo nuclear DNA synthesis. Germinating spores enter S phase only after their first mitosis, indicating that spores are in G2. In addition, we demonstrate that Dictyostelium heterochromatin is copied late in S phase and replicates via accumulation of replication factors, rather than recruitment of DNA to pre-existing factories. Analysis of variability in cycle times indicates that regulation of the cycle manifests at a single random transition in G2, and we present the first identified checkpoint in Dictyostelium, which operates at the G2-M transition in response to DNA damage.

Mortimer, D., et al. (2008). "Growth cone chemotaxis." Trends Neurosci 31(2): 90-98.
	Wiring up the nervous system depends on the precise guidance of axonal growth cones to their targets. A key mechanism underlying this guidance is chemotaxis, whereby growth cones detect and follow molecular gradients. Although recent work has uncovered many of the molecules involved in this process, the mechanisms underlying chemotactic axon guidance are still unclear. Here we compare growth cones with neutrophils and Dictyostelium discoideum, systems for which a clear conceptual framework for chemotaxis has recently emerged. This analogy suggests particular ways in which the three key steps of directional sensing, polarisation and motility might be implemented in chemotaxing growth cones.

Mondal, S., et al. (2008). "Linking Ras to myosin function: RasGEF Q, a Dictyostelium exchange factor for RasB, affects myosin II functions." J Cell Biol 181(5): 747-760.
	Ras guanine nucleotide exchange factor (GEF) Q, a nucleotide exchange factor from Dictyostelium discoideum, is a 143-kD protein containing RasGEF domains and a DEP domain. We show that RasGEF Q can bind to F-actin, has the potential to form complexes with myosin heavy chain kinase (MHCK) A that contain active RasB, and is the predominant exchange factor for RasB. Overexpression of the RasGEF Q GEF domain activates RasB, causes enhanced recruitment of MHCK A to the cortex, and leads to cytokinesis defects in suspension, phenocopying cells expressing constitutively active RasB, and myosin-null mutants. RasGEF Q(-) mutants have defects in cell sorting and slug migration during later stages of development, in addition to cell polarity defects. Furthermore, RasGEF Q(-) mutants have increased levels of unphosphorylated myosin II, resulting in myosin II overassembly. Collectively, our results suggest that starvation signals through RasGEF Q to activate RasB, which then regulates processes requiring myosin II.

Miyagishima, S. Y., et al. (2008). "Evolutionary linkage between eukaryotic cytokinesis and chloroplast division by dynamin proteins." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 105(39): 15202-15207.
	Chloroplasts have evolved from a cyanobacterial endosymbiont and been retained for more than 1 billion years by coordinated chloroplast division in multiplying eukaryotic cells. Chloroplast division is performed by ring structures at the division site, encompassing both the inside and the outside of the two envelopes. A part of the division machinery is derived from the cyanobacterial cytokinetic activity based on the FtsZ protein. In contrast, other parts of the division machinery involve proteins specific to eukaryotes, including a member of the dynamin family. Each member of the dynamin family is involved in the division or fusion of a distinct eukaryotic membrane system. To gain insight into the kind of ancestral dynamin protein and eukaryotic membrane activity that evolved to regulate chloroplast division, we investigated the functions of the dynamin proteins that are most closely related to chloroplast division proteins. These proteins in the amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum and Arabidopsis thaliana localize at the sites of cell division, where they are involved in cytokinesis. Our results suggest that the dynamin for chloroplast division is derived from that involved in eukaryotic cytokinesis. Therefore, the chloroplast division machinery is a mixture of bacterial and eukaryotic cytokinesis components, with the latter a key factor in the synchronization of endosymbiotic cell division with host cell division, thus helping to establish the permanent endosymbiotic relationship.

Mettetal II, J. T. (2008). Signal processing and decision making in single cells. United States -- Massachusetts, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
	Cells are not simple passive observers oblivious to their environment, but sense and adapt to environmental changes in order to thrive. In addition to sensing the presence of signals in the environment, cells can extract information relating to the dynamics and spatial location of these signals and implement a response to these extracellular perturbations. This work examines a variety of signal-processing and decision-making processes across several different organisms. To explore the connection between biological network topology and temporal signal processing, we study how periodic signals are propagated in the Hog1 osmotic-response pathway of the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae . Utilizing systems identification tools from control engineering, we study how the cells rapidly and robustly maintain osmotic homeostasis. By measuring the expression level of key proteins we begin to understand how fluctuating environments regulate gene expression. The lac operon in Escherichia coli has the ability to display a bistable, "all-or-nothing" response to sugar. To understand how noise drives transitions between these two stable states, we measure switching dynamics in a population of cells. A simple model is constructed that can make predictions about system behavior unavailable from a deterministic model. Further, by measuring individual switching events in a similar bistable system implemented in the Galactose utilization pathway of Saccharomyces cerevisiae , we find that correlations in switching times of related individuals can be explained in terms of correlations in levels of key regulatory proteins. Many single celled organisms, such as the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum , can sense and respond to concentration gradients of extracellular signaling molecules. We find that the cells' ability to detect an extracellular signal is influenced by an asymmetric intracellular signal, which varies in direction and magnitude from cell-to-cell. Further, a model that accounts for both signals predicts the observed population response to directed stimuli. Finally, we explore a "bet-hedging" strategy for fluctuating environments with an engineered population of Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells that randomly switch between two phenotypes. Each phenotype is fit to one of two alternating environments. We find that to optimize fitness, cells must tune the phenotypic transition rates in accordance with the rate of environmental transitions. (Copies available exclusively from MIT Libraries, Rm. 14-0551, Cambridge, MA 02139-4307. Ph. 617-253-5668; Fax 617-253-1690.)

Menotta, M., et al. (2008). "Molecular and functional characterization of a Rho GDP dissociation inhibitor in the filamentous fungus Tuber borchii." BMC Microbiol 8: 57.
	BACKGROUND: Small GTPases of the Rho family function as tightly regulated molecular switches that govern important cellular functions in eukaryotes. Several families of regulatory proteins control their activation cycle and subcellular localization. Members of the guanine nucleotide dissociation inhibitor (GDI) family sequester Rho GTPases from the plasma membrane and keep them in an inactive form. RESULTS: We report on the characterization the RhoGDI homolog of Tuber borchii Vittad., an ascomycetous ectomycorrhizal fungus. The Tbgdi gene is present in two copies in the T. borchii genome. The predicted amino acid sequence shows high similarity to other known RhoGDIs. Real time PCR analyses revealed an increased expression of Tbgdi during the phase preparative to the symbiosis instauration, in particular after stimulation with root exudates extracts, that correlates with expression of Tbcdc42. In a translocation assay TbRhoGDI was able to solubilize TbCdc42 from membranes. Surprisingly, TbRhoGDI appeared not to interact with S. cerevisiae Cdc42, precluding the use of yeast as a surrogate model for functional studies. To study the role of TbRhoGDI we performed complementation experiments using a RhoGDI null strain of Dictyostelium discoideum, a model organism where the roles of Rho signaling pathways are well established. For comparison, complementation with mammalian RhoGDI1 and LyGDI was also studied in the null strain. Although interacting with Rac1 isoforms, TbRhoGDI was not able to revert the defects of the D. discoideum RhoGDI null strain, but displayed an additional negative effect on the cAMP-stimulated actin polymerization response. CONCLUSION: T. borchii expresses a functional RhoGDI homolog that appears as an important modulator of cytoskeleton reorganization during polarized apical growth that antecedes symbiosis instauration. The specificity of TbRhoGDI actions was underscored by its inability to elicit a growth defect in S. cerevisiae or to compensate the loss of a D. discoideum RhoGDI. Knowledge of the cell signaling at the basis of cytoskeleton reorganization of ectomycorrhizal fungi is essential for improvements in the production of mycorrhized plant seedlings used in timberland extension programs and fruit body production.

Meinhardt, H. (2008). "Models of biological pattern formation: From elementary steps to the organization of embryonic axes." Curr Top Dev Biol 81: 1-63.
	An inroad into an understanding of the complex molecular interactions on which development is based can be achieved by uncovering the minimum requirements that describe elementary steps and their linkage. Organizing regions and other signaling centers can be generated by reactions that involve local self-enhancement coupled to antagonistic reactions of longer range. More complex patterns result from a chaining of such reactions in which one pattern generates the prerequisites for the next. Patterning along the single axis of radial symmetric animals including the small freshwater polyp hydra can be explained in this way. The body pattern of such ancestral organisms evolved into the brain of higher organisms, while trunk and midline formation are later evolutionary additions. The equivalent of the hydra organizer is the blastopore, for instance, the marginal zone in amphibians. It organizes the anteroposterior axis. The Spemann organizer, located on this primary organizer, initiates and elongates the midline, which is responsible for the dorsoventral pattern. In contrast, midline formation in insects is achieved by an inhibitory signal from a dorsal organizer that restricts the midline to the ventral side. Thus, different modes of midline formation are proposed to be the points of no return in the separation of phyla. The conversion of the transient patterns of morphogenetic signaling into patterns of stable gene activation can be achieved by genes whose gene products have a positive feedback on the activity of their own gene. If several such autoregulatory genes mutually exclude each other, a cell has to make an unequivocal decision to take a particular pathway. Under the influence of a gradient, sharply confined regions with particular determinations can emerge. Borders between regions of different gene activities, and the areas of intersection of two such borders, become the new signaling centers that initiate secondary embryonic fields. As required for leg and wing formation, these new fields emerge in pairs at defined positions, with defined orientation and left-right handedness. Recent molecular-genetic results provide strong support for theoretically predicted interactions. By computer simulations it is shown that the regulatory properties of these models correspond closely to experimental observations (animated simulations are available at www.eb.tuebingen.mpg.de/meinhardt). (c) 2008, Elsevier Inc.

McMains, V. C., et al. (2008). "Oscillatory signaling and network responses during the development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Ageing Res Rev 7(3): 234-248.
	Periodic biological variations reflect interactions among molecules and cells, or even organisms. The Dictyostelium cAMP oscillatory circuit is a highly robust example. cAMP oscillations in Dictyostelium arise intracellularly by a complex interplay of activating and inhibiting pathways, are transmitted extracellularly, and synchronize an entire local population. Once established, cAMP signal-relay persists stably for hours. On a two-dimensional surface, >100,000 cells may form a single coordinated territory. In suspension culture, >10(10) cells can oscillate in harmony. This review focuses on molecular mechanisms that cyclically activate and attenuate signal propagation and on chemotactic responses to oscillatory wave progression.

McMahon, P. M., et al. (2008). "Temperature dependence of myosin-II tail fragment assembly." J Muscle Res Cell Motil 29(2-5): 109-118.
	Dictyostelium myosin-II bipolar thick filament (BTF) assembly is heavily dependent on ionic strength and temperature and is reversible by the phosphorylation of just three threonines. Truncated tail fragments of Dictyostelium myosin-II are commonly used as models for BTF assembly, as they self-assemble into regular paracrystals that recapitulate the ionic strength and phosphorylation dependence of full-length Dictyostelium myosin-II BTF assembly. Here we show that Dictyostelium myosin-II tail fragment assembly is highly temperature dependent, similar to full-length Dictyostelium myosin-II. Assembly of paracrystals was far more robust at 4 degrees C than at higher temperatures. Pre-assembled paracrystals disassembled completely when shifted to 37 degrees C, indicating that assembly does not greatly improve the thermostability of these tail fragments. The melting temperatures of individual Dictyostelium myosin-II tail coiled-coils under both low and high ionic strength conditions that prohibit paracrystal assembly are extremely low, 21 degrees C and 28 degrees C, respectively. These data are consistent with reversible thermal denaturation of the coiled-coil as the most likely explanation for assembly incompetence under either very low ionic strength or high temperature conditions. Assembled paracrystals of a structurally similar fragment of nonmuscle myosin-IIA were far more thermodynamically stable than their Dictyostelium counterparts at the temperatures examined here.

Martinac, B., et al. (2008). "Ion channels in microbes." Physiol Rev 88(4): 1449-1490.
	Studies of ion channels have for long been dominated by the animalcentric, if not anthropocentric, view of physiology. The structures and activities of ion channels had, however, evolved long before the appearance of complex multicellular organisms on earth. The diversity of ion channels existing in cellular membranes of prokaryotes is a good example. Although at first it may appear as a paradox that most of what we know about the structure of eukaryotic ion channels is based on the structure of bacterial channels, this should not be surprising given the evolutionary relatedness of all living organisms and suitability of microbial cells for structural studies of biological macromolecules in a laboratory environment. Genome sequences of the human as well as various microbial, plant, and animal organisms unambiguously established the evolutionary links, whereas crystal-lographic studies of the structures of major types of ion channels published over the last decade clearly demonstrated the advantage of using microbes as experimental organisms. The purpose of this review is not only to provide an account of acquired knowledge on microbial ion channels but also to show that the study of microbes and their ion channels may also hold a key to solving unresolved molecular mysteries in the future.

Marsano, F., et al. (2008). Proteomic effects of different Hg concentration in Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae. Comp Biochem Physiol A- Mol Integr. Physiol.
	We used bidimensional electrophoresis with immunological and
mass spectrometry (MALDI and nanoLC-ESI-Q-TOF) techniques to
identify proteomic changes evoked in Dictyostelium amoebae by
different Hg concentrations. Indeed, it was used a lower dose-2 μMdetermining
physiological changes(e.g., lysosomal membrane stability),
and an higher concentration-10 μM-eliciting also effects on
mortality (few%) and cell replication. High-resolution 2DE proteomic
maps of soluble proteins unveiled two distinct signatures. Peptide
identification showed a response to oxidative stress at low Hg dose:13
proteins were up-regulated and among these GST-catalase and
thioredoxin were involved. Such molecular fingerprinting disappeared
at higher concentration, where12 proteins were downregulated
and only 2 were overexpressed. A battery of antibodies was
used to get clues on protein responses. Westernblot with anti-GST
antibodies revealed the overexpression in both conditions, but
immunofluorescence staining showed a compartimentalization at
the higher concentration, which is consistent with 2DE results. Antiubiquitin
staining revealed augmented protein ubiquitination at high
molecular weights and also an increase of ubiquitin availability only at
the high dose. Data were supported by DNA-microarrays indicating a
dose dependent overexpression of the proteasome complex genes,
which – together with dramatic lysosomal destabilization – suggests
the occurrence of non-physiological catabolic processes. Protein
carbonylation was assayed by spectrophotometric and 2DE westernblot
analyses. Results demonstrated an increase in protein oxidation
after the treatment with the higher Hg dose (14 spots). Severe oxidative
stress injuries were also confirmed by the lysosomal accumulation
of lipofuscin. In conclusion, the observed proteomic changes
may be related to two different physiological status of Hg exposed
amoebae: (i) a stress syndrome during which cells adapt, propagate
and survive; (ii) a toxic syndrome affecting several cellular, physiological
functions and finally cell survival.

Marin, I., et al. (2008). "The Roco protein family: a functional perspective." FASEB J 22(9): 3103-3110.
	In this review, we discuss the evolutionary, biochemical, and functional data available for members of the Roco protein family. They are characterized by having a conserved supradomain that contains a Ras-like GTPase domain, called Roc, and a characteristic COR (C-terminal of Roc) domain. A kinase domain and diverse regulatory and protein-protein interaction domains are also often found in Roco proteins. First detected in the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum, they have a broad phylogenetic range, being present in both prokaryotes and eukaryotes. The functions of these proteins are diverse. The best understood are Dictyostelium Rocos, which are involved in cell division, chemotaxis, and development. However, this family has received extensive attention because mutations in one of the human Roco genes (LRRK2) cause familial Parkinson disease. Other human Rocos are involved in epilepsy and cancer. Biochemical data suggest that Roc domains are capable of activating kinase domains intramolecularly. Interestingly, some of the dominant, disease-causing mutations in both the GTPase and kinase domains of LRRK2 increase kinase activity. Thus, Roco proteins may act as stand-alone transduction units, performing roles that were thought so far to require multiple proteins, as occur in the Ras transduction pathway.

Mallick, B. C., et al. (2008). Conformational stability and folding of calcium-binding protein from Dictyostelium discoideum. Febs j.
	Introduction: The protein calfumirin-1 containing the EF-hand motifs
from Dictyostelium discoideum bind Ca2+-ions with high affinity and
regulate cell differentiations and proliferation. The mechanism of
Ca2+-binding and the conformational changes is important and need
to be address. We investigated the conformational changes and the
structural stability induced upon Ca2+-binding to the protein at studied
conditions.
Methods: The coding region of CAF-1 was amplified by PCR, cloned
to pET-15b-expression vector and expressed in E. coli as His-fusion
protein. The protein conformational changes and thermal stability were
monitored by using fluorescence and circular dichroism. The binding
isotherms of Ca2+-CAF-1 were monitored by Isothermal Titration
Calorimeter (ITC).
Results: The stochiometric titration of [Ca2+]/[CAF-1] binding
showed 50% of the signal changes at a ratio equivalent to the binding
sites in the protein. The thermal denaturation of apo- and holo-CAF-1
monitored by circular dichroism and the thermodynamics parameters
obtained have good correlation to explain the protein stability. The
stability against chemical denaturation was found to be Ca2+-ion
dependant. The comparative binding of hydrophobic probe (ANS) to
apo-and holo-CAF-1 indicates the conformational changes. The
stability of the protein-Ca2+-binding interaction parameters were
obtained by ITC experiments.
Conclusions: The Ca2+-dependence conformational changes and stability
of CAF-1 under physiological conditions helps to understand the
mechanisms that required Ca2+-ions during the life cycle of D. discoideum.

Malchow, D., et al. (2008). "A fast Ca2+-induced Ca2+-release mechanism in Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Calcium 43(6): 521-530.
	In vertebrate cells calcium-induced calcium release (CICR) is thought to be responsible for rapid cytosolic Ca(2+) elevations despite the occurrence of strong Ca(2+) buffering within the cytosol. In Dictyostelium, a CICR mechanism has not been reported. While analyzing Ca(2+) regulation in a vesicular fraction of Dictyostelium rich in Ca(2+)-flux activity, containing contractile vacuoles (CV) as the main component of acidic Ca(2+) stores and ER, we detected a rapid Ca(2+) change upon addition of Ca(2+) (CIC). CIC was three times larger in active stores accumulating Ca(2+) than before Ca(2+) uptake and in inactivated stores. Ca(2+) release was demonstrated with the calmodulin antagonist W7 that inhibits the V-type H(+)ATPase activity and Ca(2+) uptake of acidic Ca(2+) stores. W7 caused a rapid and large increase of extravesicular Ca(2+) ([Ca(2+)](e)), much faster and larger than thapsigargin (Tg), a Ca(2+)-uptake inhibitor of the ER. W7 treatment blocked CIC indicating that a large part of CIC is due to Ca(2+) release. The height of CIC depended on the filling state of the Ca(2+) stores. CIC was virtually unchanged in the iplA(-) strain that lacks a putative IP(3) or ryanodine receptor thought to be located at the endoplasmic reticulum. By contrast, CIC was reduced in two mutants, HGR8 and lvsA(-), that are impaired in acidic Ca(2+)-store function. Purified Ca(2+) stores enriched in CV still displayed CIC, indicating that CV are a source of Ca(2+)-induced Ca(2+) release. CIC-defective mutants were altered in their oscillatory properties. The irregularity of the HGR8 oscillation suggests that the principal oscillator is affected in this mutant.

Major, R., et al. (2008). "Kinetics of eukaryote cells adhesion under shear flow detachment on the PLD deposited surfaces." Bulletin of the Polish Academy of Sciences-Technical Sciences 56(3): 223-228.
	Hybryd PLD method was used for deposition high quality thin Ti, TiN, Ti(C,N) and DLC coatings. The kinetic energy of the evaporated particles was controlled by application of variation of different reactive and non reactive atmospheres during deposition. The purpose was to improve adhesion by building, a bridge between the real ceramic coating and the substrate. A new layer composition layout was proposed by application of a buffer. starting layer. Advanced HRTEM investigation based oil high resolution transmission electron microscopy was used to reveal structure dependence Oil specific atmosphere in the reactive chamber. New experimental technique to examine the crystallographic orientation based oil X-ray texture tomography was applied to estimate contribution of the atmosphere to crystall orientation. Using Dictyostelium discoideum cells as a model organism for specific and nonspecific adhesion, kinetics of shear flow-induced cell detachment was studied. For a given cell, detachment occurs for critical Stress Values caused by the applied hydrodynamic pressure above a threshold. Cells are then removed from the Substrate with an apparent first-order rate reaction that strongly depends oil the stress. The threshold stress depends oil cell size and physicochemical properties of the substrate, but it is not affected by depolymerization of the actin and tubulin cytoskeleton.

Major, B., et al. (2008). "Coatings on tin and Ti(C,N) basis for biomedical application to blood contact and tin/CrN multilayered tribological systems produced by pulsed laser deposition." Archives of Metallurgy and Materials 53(1): 39-48.
	Research activity on surface engineering performed at the IMIM PAS in last years has been presented. Experiments were focused on TiN and Ti(C,N) thin coatings produced on titanium and biologically applied polyurethane substrates by application of pulsed laser deposition (PLD), magnetron sputtering (MS), and hybrid PLD/MS, at room temperature. Bio-physical tests of the kinetics of shear flow-induced cell detachment have been carried out. Model eucariotic cells easy to manipulate using technics of molecular biology have been used in experiments. Fluorescence patterns obtained after the performed test at kinetics condition tests have been used to establish kinetics curves. A microstructure examination by application of XRD and transmission electron microscopy have been performed. On the basis of the real cell detachment experiment, a finite element simulation was done. The highest shear stress was estimated for the region of the radius of the whole pierced in the center of the upper disc. There are an increasing number of applications in tribology where the properties of a single material are not sufficient. One way to surmount this problem is to use a multilayer coating. Application of metallic interlayers improves adhesion of nitride hard layer in multilayer systems. Tribological coatings consisted of 4, 8 and 32 layers of Cr/CrN and Ti/TiN types were fabricated with the PLD technique. It is found in transmission electron examinations on thin foils prepared from cross-section that both nitride-based multilayer structures studied are characterized by small columnar crystallite sizes and high defect density, what might raise their hardness but compromise coating adhesion. The intermediate metallic layers contained larger sized and less defective columnar structure compared to the nitride layers located at close to the substrate which should improve the coatings toughness. Switching from single layer to multi-layer metal/nitride composition improved resistance to delamination.

Maeda, Y. T., et al. (2008). "Ordered patterns of cell shape and orientational correlation during spontaneous cell migration." PLoS One 3(11): e3734.
	BACKGROUND: In the absence of stimuli, most motile eukaryotic cells move by spontaneously coordinating cell deformation with cell movement in the absence of stimuli. Yet little is known about how cells change their own shape and how cells coordinate the deformation and movement. Here, we investigated the mechanism of spontaneous cell migration by using computational analyses. METHODOLOGY: We observed spontaneously migrating Dictyostelium cells in both a vegetative state (round cell shape and slow motion) and starved one (elongated cell shape and fast motion). We then extracted regular patterns of morphological dynamics and the pattern-dependent systematic coordination with filamentous actin (F-actin) and cell movement by statistical dynamic analyses. CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: We found that Dictyostelium cells in both vegetative and starved states commonly organize their own shape into three ordered patterns, elongation, rotation, and oscillation, in the absence of external stimuli. Further, cells inactivated for PI3-kinase (PI3K) and/or PTEN did not show ordered patterns due to the lack of spatial control in pseudopodial formation in both the vegetative and starved states. We also found that spontaneous polarization was achieved in starved cells by asymmetric localization of PTEN and F-actin. This breaking of the symmetry of protein localization maintained the leading edge and considerably enhanced the persistence of directed migration, and overall random exploration was ensured by switching among the different ordered patterns. Our findings suggest that Dictyostelium cells spontaneously create the ordered patterns of cell shape mediated by PI3K/PTEN/F-actin and control the direction of cell movement by coordination with these patterns even in the absence of external stimuli.

Ludlow, M. J., et al. (2008). "Purinergic-mediated Ca2+ influx in Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Calcium 44(6): 567-579.
	The presence of five P2X-like genes (p2xA-E) in Dictyostelium suggests that nucleotides other than cAMP may act as extracellular signalling molecules in this model eukaryote. However, p2xA was found to have an exclusively intracellular localisation making it unclear whether Dictyostelium utilise P2 receptors in a manner analogous to vertebrates. Using an apoaequorin expressing strain we show here that Dictyostelium do possess cell surface P2 receptors that facilitate Ca(2+) influx in response to extracellular ATP and ADP (EC(50)=7.5microM and 6.1microM, respectively). Indicative of P2X receptor activation, responses were rapid reaching peak within 2.91+/-0.04s, required extracellular Ca(2+), were inhibited by Gd(3+), modified by extracellular pH and were not affected by deletion of either the single Gbeta or iplA genes. Responses also remained unaffected by disruption of p2xA or p2xE showing that these genes are not involved. Cu(2+) and Zn(2+) inhibited purine-evoked Ca(2+) influx with IC(50) values of 0.9 and 6.3microM, respectively. 300microM Zn(2+) completely abolished the initial large rapid rise in intracellular Ca(2+) revealing the presence of an additional smaller, slower P2Y-like response. The existence of P2 receptors in Dictyostelium makes this organism a valuable model to explore fundamental aspects of purinergic signalling.

Ludlow, M. J., et al. (2008). "Functional characterisation of intracellular Dictyostelium discoideum P2X receptors." J Biol Chem.
	Indicative of cell surface P2X ion channel activation, extracellular ATP evokes a rapid and transient calcium influx in the model eukaryote Dictyostelium discoideum. Five P2X-like proteins (dP2XA-E) are present in this organism. However, their roles in purinergic signalling are unclear since dP2XA proved to have an intracellular localisation on the contractile vacuole where it is thought to be required for osmoregulation. To determine functional properties of the remaining four dP2X-like proteins and to assess their cellular roles, we recorded membrane currents from expressed cloned receptors and generated a quintuple knockout Dictyostelium strain devoid of dP2X receptors. ATP evoked inward currents at dP2XB and dP2XE receptors but not at dP2XC or dP2XD. beta,gamma-imido-ATP was more potent than ATP at dP2XB but a weak partial agonist at dP2XE. Currents in dP2XB and dP2XE were strongly inhibited by Na(+) but insensitive to copper and the P2 receptor antagonists PPADS and suramin. Unusual for P2X channels, dP2XA and dP2XB were also Cl(-) permeable. The extracellular purinergic response to ATP persisted in p2xA/B/C/D/E quintuple knockout Dictyostelium demonstrating that dP2X channels are not responsible. dP2XB,C,D, and E were found to be intracellular localised to the contractile vacuole with the ligand binding domain facing the lumen. However, quintuple p2xA/B/C/D/E null cells were still capable of regulating cell volume in water demonstrating that, contrary to previous findings, dP2X receptors are not required for osmoregulation. Responses to the calmodulin antagonist calmidazolium however were reduced in p2xA/B/C/D/E null cells suggesting that dP2X receptors play a role in intracellular calcium signalling.

Ludlow, M., et al. (2008). "Extracellular ATP and ADP mediate Ca2+ influx in Dictyostelium discoideum." Purinergic Signalling 4: S5-S6.
	
Lucas-Lopez, C., et al. (2008). "The small molecule tool (S)-(-)-blebbistatin: novel insights of relevance to myosin inhibitor design." Org Biomol Chem 6(12): 2076-2084.
	The small molecule blebbistatin is now a front line tool in the study of myosin function. Chemical modification of the tricyclic core of blebbistatin could deliver the next generation of myosin inhibitors and to help address this we report here on the impact of structural changes in the methyl-substituted aromatic ring of blebbistatin on its biological activity. Chemical methods for the preparation of isomeric methyl-containing analogues are reported and a series of co-crystal structures are used to rationalise the observed variations in their biological activity. These studies further support the view that the previously identified binding mode of blebbistatin to Dictyostelium discoideum myosin II is of relevance to its mode of action. A discussion of the role that these observations have on planning the synthesis of focused libraries of blebbistatin analogues is also provided including an assessment of possibilities by computational methods. These studies are ultimately directed at the development of novel myosin inhibitors with improved affinity and different selectivity profiles from blebbistatin itself.

Lu, Y. H., et al. (2008). "Influence of medium components on growth kinetics of Dictyostelium discoideum." World J. Microbiol. Bbiotechnol. 24: 491-499.
	
Lorenz, T. and J. Reinstein (2008). "The influence of proline isomerization and off-pathway intermediates on the folding mechanism of eukaryotic UMP/CMP Kinase." J Mol Biol 381(2): 443-455.
	The globular 22-kDa protein UMP/CMP from Dictyostelium discoideum (UmpK) belongs to the family of nucleoside monophosphate (NMP) kinases. These enzymes not only show high sequence and structure similarities but also share the alpha/beta-fold, a very common protein topology. We investigated the protein folding mechanism of UmpK as a representative for this ubiquitous enzyme class. Equilibrium stability towards urea and the unfolding and refolding kinetics were studied by means of fluorescence and far-UV CD spectroscopy. Although the unfolding can be described by a two-state process, folding kinetics are rather complex with four refolding phases that can be resolved and an additional burst phase. Moreover, two of these phases exhibit a pronounced rollover in the refolding limb that cannot be explained by aggregation. Whilst secondary structure formation is not observed in the burst phase reaction, folding to the native structure is strongly influenced by the slowest phase, since 30% of the alpha-helical CD signal is restored therein. This process can be assigned to proline isomerization and is strongly accelerated by the Escherichia coli peptidyl-prolyl isomerase trigger factor. The analysis of our single-mixing and double-mixing experiments suggests the occurrence of an off-pathway intermediate and an unproductive collapsed structure, which appear to be rate limiting for the folding of UmpK.

Lopez, M. D. and T. Samuelsson (2008). "Early evolution of histone mRNA 39 end processing." Rna 14(1): 1-10.
	The replication-dependent histone mRNAs in metazoa are not polyadenylated, in contrast to the bulk of mRNA. Instead, they contain an RNA stem-loop (SL) structure close to the 39 end of the mature RNA, and this 39 end is generated by cleavage using a machinery involving the U7 snRNP and protein factors such as the stem-loop binding protein ( SLBP). This machinery of 39 end processing is related to that of polyadenylation as protein components are shared between the systems. It is commonly believed that histone 39 end processing is restricted to metazoa and green algae. In contrast, polyadenylation is ubiquitous in Eukarya. However, using computational approaches, we have now identified components of histone 39 end processing in a number of protozoa. Thus, the histone mRNA stem-loop structure as well as the SLBP protein are present in many different protozoa, including Dictyostelium, alveolates, Trypanosoma, and Trichomonas. These results show that the histone 39 end processing machinery is more ancient than previously anticipated and can be traced to the root of the eukaryotic phylogenetic tree. We also identified histone mRNAs from both metazoa and protozoa that are polyadenylated but also contain the signals characteristic of histone 39 end processing. These results provide further evidence that some histone genes are regulated at the level of 39 end processing to produce either polyadenylated RNAs or RNAs with the 39 end characteristic of replication-dependent histone mRNAs.

Loomis, W. F. (2008). "cAMP oscillations during aggregation of Dictyostelium." Adv Exp Med Biol 641: 39-48.
	For many years it has been known that developing cells of Dictyostelium discoideum show periodic surges as they aggregate. When it was discovered that the cells were responding chemotactically to cAMP gradients produced within the populations, experiments were carried out that demonstrated similar periodic changes in the concentration of extracellular cAMP. Moreover, homogenous populations of developed cells held in suspension could be shown to respond to cAMP by changes in cell shape. Such suspensions showed spontaneous oscillations in light scattering as well as cAMP levels as the result of entrainment of the cells. The molecular components necessary for the pulsatile release of cAMP were uncovered by analyzing the behavior of a large number of strains with defined mutations isolated from saturation mutagenic screens. Subsequent genetic and biochemical studies established the connections between a dozen proteins essential for spontaneous oscillations. Computer simulations of a molecular circuit based on these results showed that it is able to account for the temporal and quantitative aspects of the oscillatory system. The circuit also appears to be coupled to the construction and dismantling of the actin/myosin cortical layer that ensures that pseudopods are restricted to the anterior of cells during chemotaxis and that the cells do not back-track when the natural wave is behind them. Since the same molecular clock controls both signal production and signal response, these behaviors are always kept strictly in phase.

Lombardi, M. L., et al. (2008). "Mechano-chemical signaling maintains the rapid movement of Dictyostelium cells." Exp Cell Res 314(8): 1850-1859.
	The survival of Dictyostelium cells depends on their ability to efficiently chemotax, either towards food or to form multicellular aggregates. Although the involvement of Ca2+ signaling during chemotaxis is well known, it is not clear how this regulates cell movement. Previously, fish epithelial keratocytes have been shown to display transient increases in intracellular calcium ([Ca2+]i) that are mediated by stretch-activated calcium channels (SACs), which play a role in retraction of the cell body [J. Lee, A. Ishihara, G. Oxford, B. Johnson, and K. Jacobson, Regulation of cell movement is mediated by stretch-activated calcium channels. Nature, 1999. 400(6742): p. 382-6.]. To investigate the involvement of SACs in Dictyostelium movement we performed high resolution calcium imaging in wild-type (NC4A2) Dictyostelium cells to detect changes in [Ca2+]i. We observed small, brief, Ca2+ transients in randomly moving wild-type cells that were dependent on both intracellular and extracellular sources of calcium. Treatment of cells with the SAC blocker gadolinium (Gd3+) inhibited transients and decreased cell speed, consistent with the involvement of SACs in regulating Dictyostelium motility. Additional support for SAC activity was given by the increase in frequency of Ca2+ transients when Dictyostelium cells were moving on a more adhesive substratum or when they were mechanically stretched. We conclude that mechano-chemical signaling via SACs plays a major role in maintaining the rapid movement of Dictyostelium cells.

Lombardi, M. L. (2008). Biomechanics and molecular mechanisms of amoeboid cell movement. United States -- Connecticut, University of Connecticut.
	Cell movement is a multistep cycle that is essential for many biological events and involves the integration of biochemical and biophysical signals. This process requires the coordination of protrusion and adhesion formation at the cell front with retraction and detachment of adhesions at the rear edge. Many systems, such as fish epithelial keratocytes, leukocytes, fibroblasts and Dictyostelium , have been used with fluorescence microscopy, molecular biology, and biochemistry to provide information about the major proteins and molecular mechanisms underlying these processes. However, our knowledge of the biomechanics of cell migration, i.e. whether these proteins and mechanisms are able to generate the necessary forces for movement, is still limited. Here we have used a gelatin-based traction force assay to detect the traction forces produced by wild-type (NC4A2), myosin II essential light chain mutant ( mlcE - ), and myosin II heavy chain mutant ( mhcA - ) Dictyostelium cells, and GFP-myosin II expressing Dictyostelium . We found that for each cell type, the most rapid movement occurred when an asymmetric distribution of traction stress exists, in which forces at the rear are significantly greater than at the front, irrespective of the absolute value of traction stress magnitude. We propose that cell speed for each cell type is determined by the rate and extent to which traction stress asymmetry develops, and can be related to the distinct roles of myosin II motor and actin cross-linking activity. We also gathered evidence that rapid movement in Dictyostelium cells can be regulated by mechano-chemical signaling. By performing high resolution Ca 2+ imaging, we found that these cells display transient increases in Ca 2+ that are dependent on both intracellular and extracellular calcium and can be inhibited by gadolinium (Gd 3+ ). The data provide evidence for the role of stretch activated calcium channels (SACs) in stimulating these Ca 2+ transients initiating calcium-dependent retraction. Taken together, these results emphasize the importance of the integration of the biomechanics and cellular pathways in the regulation of rapid movement in Dictyostelium cells. These studies can be applied with other cell types, such as leukocytes, to understand cell motility in healthy and abnormal diseased states and for the development of novel drug treatments.

Liu, R., et al. (2008). "Formins in development: Orchestrating body plan origami." Biochim Biophys Acta.
	Formins, proteins defined by the presence of an FH2 domain and their ability to nucleate linear F-actin de novo, play a key role in the regulation of the cytoskeleton. Initially thought to primarily regulate actin, recent studies have highlighted a role for formins in the regulation of microtubule dynamics, and most recently have uncovered the ability of some formins to coordinate the organization of both the microtubule and actin cytoskeletons. While biochemical analyses of this family of proteins have yielded many insights into how formins regulate diverse cytoskeletal reorganizations, we are only beginning to appreciate how and when these functional properties are relevant to biological processes in a developmental or organismal context. Developmental genetic studies in fungi, Dictyostelium, vertebrates, plants and other model organisms have revealed conserved roles for formins in cell polarity, actin cable assembly and cytokinesis. However, roles have also been discovered for formins that are specific to particular organisms. Thus, formins perform both global and specific functions, with some of these roles concurring with previous biochemical data and others exposing new properties of formins. While not all family members have been examined across all organisms, the analyses to date highlight the significance of the flexibility within the formin family to regulate a broad spectrum of diverse cytoskeletal processes during development.

Liu, M., et al. (2008). "Legionella pneumophila EnhC is required for efficient replication in tumour necrosis factor alpha-stimulated macrophages." Cell Microbiol 10(9): 1906-1923.
	Legionella pneumophila enhC(-) mutants were originally identified as being defective for uptake into host cells. In this work, we found that the absence of EnhC resulted in defective intracellular growth when dissemination of intracellular bacteria to neighbouring cells was expected to occur. No such defect was observed during growth within the amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum. Culture supernatants containing the secreted products of infected macrophages added to host cells restricted the growth of the DeltaenhC strain, while tumour necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), at concentrations similar to those found in macrophage culture supernatants, could reproduce the growth restriction exerted by culture supernatants on L. pneumophilaDeltaenhC. The absence of EnhC also caused defective trafficking of the Legionella-containing vacuole in TNF-alpha-treated macrophages. EnhC was shown to be an envelope-associated protein largely localized to the periplasm, with its expression induced in post-exponential phase, as is true for many virulence-associated proteins. Furthermore, the absence of EnhC appeared to affect survival under stress conditions, as the DeltaenhC mutant was more susceptible to H(2)O(2) treatment than the wild-type strain. EnhC therefore is a unique virulence factor that is required for growth specifically when macrophages have heightened potential to restrict microbial replication.

Liao, X. H., et al. (2008). "Growth control via TOR kinase signaling, an intracellular sensor of amino acid and energy availability, with crosstalk potential to proline metabolism." Amino Acids 35(4): 761-770.
	The TOR (Target of Rapamycin) protein kinase pathway plays a central role in sensing and responding to nutrients, stress, and intracellular energy state. TOR complex 1 (TORC1) is comprised of TOR, Raptor, and Lst8 and its activity is sensitive to inhibition by the macrolide antibiotic rapamycin. TORC1 regulates protein synthesis, ribosome biogenesis, autophagy, and ultimately cell growth through the phosphorylation of S6 K, 4E-BP, and other substrates. As TORC1 activity is positively or negatively modulated in response to upstream regulators, cellular growth rate is, respectively, enhanced or suppressed. A separate multiprotein TOR complex, TORC2, is insensitive to direct inhibition by rapamycin and does not regulate growth patterns directly; TORC2 can, however, impact certain aspects of TORC1 signaling and cell survival. TOR signaling is an ancient pathway, conserved among the yeasts, Dictyostelium, C. elegans, Drosophila, mammals, and Arabidopsis. This review will focus on the regulation of TORC1 in mammalian cells in the context of amino acid sensing/regulation and intracellular ATP homeostasis, but will also include comparisons among other organisms.

Li, M. S., et al. (2008). "New method for deciphering free energy landscape of three-state proteins." J Chem Phys 129(10): 105102.
	We have developed a new simulation method to estimate the distance between the native state and the first transition state and the distance between the intermediate state and the second transition state of a protein which mechanically unfolds via intermediates. Assuming that the end-to-end extension DeltaR is a good reaction coordinate to describe the free energy landscape of proteins subjected to an external force, we define the midpoint extension DeltaR(*) between two transition states from either constant force or constant loading rate pulling simulations. In the former case, DeltaR(*) is defined as a middle point between two plateaus in the time-dependent curve of DeltaR, while, in the latter one, it is a middle point between two peaks in the force-extension curve. Having determined DeltaR(*), one can compute times needed to cross two transition state barriers starting from the native state. With the help of the Bell and microscopic kinetic theory, force dependencies of these unfolding times can be used to locate the intermediate state and to extract unfolding barriers. We have applied our method to the titin domain I27 and the fourth domain of Dictyostelium discoideum filamin (DDFLN4) and obtained reasonable agreement with experiments, using the C(alpha)-Go model.

Li, L., et al. (2008). "Persistent cell motion in the absence of external signals: a search strategy for eukaryotic cells." PLoS One 3(5): e2093.
	BACKGROUND: Eukaryotic cells are large enough to detect signals and then orient to them by differentiating the signal strength across the length and breadth of the cell. Amoebae, fibroblasts, neutrophils and growth cones all behave in this way. Little is known however about cell motion and searching behavior in the absence of a signal. Is individual cell motion best characterized as a random walk? Do individual cells have a search strategy when they are beyond the range of the signal they would otherwise move toward? Here we ask if single, isolated, Dictyostelium and Polysphondylium amoebae bias their motion in the absence of external cues. METHODOLOGY: We placed single well-isolated Dictyostelium and Polysphondylium cells on a nutrient-free agar surface and followed them at 10 sec intervals for approximately 10 hr, then analyzed their motion with respect to velocity, turning angle, persistence length, and persistence time, comparing the results to the expectation for a variety of different types of random motion. CONCLUSIONS: We find that amoeboid behavior is well described by a special kind of random motion: Amoebae show a long persistence time ( approximately 10 min) beyond which they start to lose their direction; they move forward in a zig-zag manner; and they make turns every 1-2 min on average. They bias their motion by remembering the last turn and turning away from it. Interpreting the motion as consisting of runs and turns, the duration of a run and the amplitude of a turn are both found to be exponentially distributed. We show that this behavior greatly improves their chances of finding a target relative to performing a random walk. We believe that other eukaryotic cells may employ a strategy similar to Dictyostelium when seeking conditions or signal sources not yet within range of their detection system.

Li, L., et al. (2008). "Binary and gray-scale patterning of chemical functionality on polymer films." J Am Chem Soc 130(41): 13512-13513.
	We present a facile technique for the gray-scale chemical functionalization of polymer surfaces with high dynamic range. We demonstrate the use of this technique to create amine-functionalized substrates that are used for the patterned binding of fluorophores and the patterned synthesis of peptides. Studies of the behavior of the model organism Dictyostelium discoideum indicate the biocompatibility of the functionalized substrates.

Li, H., et al. (2008). "Dictyostelium Aurora kinase has properties of both Aurora A and Aurora B kinases." Euk Cell 7(5): 894-905.
	Aurora kinases are highly conserved proteins with important roles in mitosis. Metazoans contain two kinases, Aurora A and B, which contribute distinct functions at the spindle poles and the equatorial region respectively. It is not currently known whether the specialized functions of the two kinases arose after their duplication in animal cells or were already present in their ancestral kinase. We show that Dictyostelium discoideum contains a single Aurora kinase, DdAurora, that displays characteristics of both Aurora A and B. Like Aurora A, DdAurora has an extended N-terminal domain with an A-box sequence and localizes at the spindle poles during early mitosis. Like Aurora B, DdAurora binds to its partner DdINCENP and localizes on centromeres at metaphase, the central spindle during anaphase, and the cleavage furrow at the end of cytokinesis. DdAurora also has several unusual properties. DdAurora remains associated with centromeres in anaphase, and this association does not require an interaction with DdINCENP. DdAurora then localizes at the cleavage furrow, but only at the end of cytokinesis. This localization is dependent on DdINCENP and the motor proteins Kif12 and myosin II. Thus, DdAurora may represent the ancestral kinase that gave rise to the different Aurora kinases in animals and also those in other organisms.

Letcher, A. J., et al. (2008). "Do mammals make all their own inositol hexakisphosphate?" Biochem J 416(2): 263-270.
	A highly specific and sensitive mass assay for inositol hexakisphosphate (InsP6) was characterized. This centres around phosphorylating InsP6 with [32P]ATP using a recombinant InsP6 kinase from Giardia lambia, followed by HPLC of the 32P-labelled products with an internal [3H]InsP7 standard. This assay was used to quantify InsP6 levels in a variety of biological samples.Concentrations of InsP6 in rat tissues varied from 10-20 microM (assuming 64% of wet weight of tissue is cytosol water), whereas using the same assumption axenic Dictyostelium discoideum cells contained 352 +/- 11 microM InsP6. HeLa cells were seeded at low density and grown to confluence, at which point they contained InsP6 levels per mg of protein similar to rat tissues. This amounted to 1.952 +/- 0.117 nmol InsP6 per culture dish, despite the cells being grown in serum shown to contain no detectable(less than 20 pmol per dish) InsP6. These results demonstrate that mammalian cells synthesize all their own InsP6. Human blood was analysed, and although the white cell fraction contained InsP6 at a concentration comparable with other tissues, in serum and platelet-free plasma no InsP6 was detected (<1 nM InsP6). Human urine was also examined, and also contained no detectable (<5 nM) InsP6. These results suggest that dietary studies purporting to measure InsP6 at micromolar concentrations in human plasma or urine may not have been quantifying this inositol phosphate. Therefore claims that administrating InsP6 in the diet or applying it topically can produce health benefits by increasing extracellular InsP6 levels may require reassessment.

Lee, N. S., et al. (2008). "The function of PP2A/B56 in non-metazoan multicellular development." Differentiation 76(10): 1104-1110.
	DB56, the Dictyostelium B56 homolog, displayed high sequence homology to other eukaryotic B56 subunits of the PP2A and a specific association with the PP2A catalytic subunit. Cells lacking DB56, psrA(-), displayed higher PP2A phosphatase activity compared with the wild type, approximately 10 hr of delayed expression of ecmA and ecmB prestalk markers, and inefficient culmination. The prespore marker cotB declined as wild-type cells culminate, but no such decline was observed from psrA(-) cells. Interestingly, psrA(-) cells exhibited higher GSK3 kinase activity. Furthermore, the expression of the dominant negative GSK3 mutant (K84/85M) in psrA(-) cells improved both prestalk and prespore expression patterns similarly to wild-type cells. However, culmination was not restored in psrA(-) cells expressing dominant negative GSK3, which suggests that PP2A/DB56 has an extra target during terminal differentiation. This report shows that PP2A/DB56 controls not only metazoan development, but also non-metazoan cell fate decision processes.

Lee, N. S., et al. (2008). "Dictyostelium kinase DPYK3 negatively regulates STATc signaling in cell fate decision." Dev Growth Differ 50(7): 607-613.
	DPYK3, a member of the Dictyostelium TKL (tyrosine kinase like) kinase family, was ablated by homologous recombination. dpyk3- cells displayed aberrant pattern formation during development. The prestalk O zone was not properly formed and, instead, the prespore zone was expanded in dpyk3- slugs. During development, the transcription factor STATc (signal transducers and activators of transcription c) was persistently phosphorylated and ecmAO expression level was kept low in dpyk3- cells. Furthermore, in response to differentiation inducing factor-1 (DIF-1) in suspension culture, dpyk3- cells displayed persistent STATc phosphorylation and reintroduction of DPYK3 in dpyk3- cells restored transient STATc phosphorylation similarly to wild type cells. In contrast to the positive STAT regulation by Janus Kinase in metazoans, Dictyostelium DPYK3 negatively regulates STATc during development in response to DIF-1 signaling.

Larsson, P., et al. (2008). "De novo search for non-coding RNA genes in the AT-rich genome of Dictyostelium discoideum: performance of Markov-dependent genome feature scoring." Genome Res 18(6): 888-899.
	Genome data are increasingly important in the computational identification of novel regulatory non-coding RNAs (ncRNAs). However, most ncRNA gene-finders are either specialized to well-characterized ncRNA gene families or require comparisons of closely related genomes. We developed a method for de novo screening for ncRNA genes with a nucleotide composition that stands out against the background genome based on a partial sum process. We compared the performance when assuming independent and first-order Markov-dependent nucleotides, respectively, and used Karlin-Altschul and Karlin-Dembo statistics to evaluate the significance of hits. We hypothesized that a first-order Markov-dependent process might have better power to detect ncRNA genes since nearest-neighbor models have been shown to be successful in predicting RNA structures. A model based on a first-order partial sum process (analyzing overlapping dinucleotides) had better sensitivity and specificity than a zeroth-order model when applied to the AT-rich genome of the amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum. In this genome, we detected 94% of previously known ncRNA genes (at this sensitivity, the false positive rate was estimated to be 25% in a simulated background). The predictions were further refined by clustering candidate genes according to sequence similarity and/or searching for an ncRNA-associated upstream element. We experimentally verified six out of 10 tested ncRNA gene predictions. We conclude that higher-order models, in combination with other information, are useful for identification of novel ncRNA gene families in single-genome analysis of D. discoideum. Our generalizable approach extends the range of genomic data that can be searched for novel ncRNA genes using well-grounded statistical methods.

Langenick, J., et al. (2008). "A Dictyostelium homologue of the metazoan Cbl proteins regulates STAT signalling." J Cell Sci 121(Pt 21): 3524-3530.
	Cbl proteins downregulate metazoan signalling pathways by ubiquitylating receptor tyrosine kinases, thereby targeting them for degradation. They contain a phosphotyrosine-binding region, comprising an EF-hand and an SH2 domain, linked to an E3 ubiquitin-ligase domain. CblA, a Dictyostelium homologue of the Cbl proteins, contains all three conserved domains. In a cblA(-) strain early development occurs normally but migrating cblA(-) slugs frequently fragment and the basal disc of the culminants that are formed are absent or much reduced. These are characteristic features of mutants in signalling by DIF-1, the low-molecular-mass prestalk and stalk cell inducer. Tyrosine phosphorylation of STATc is induced by DIF-1 but in the cblA(-) strain this response is attenuated relative to parental cells. We present evidence that CblA fulfils this function, as a positive regulator of STATc tyrosine phosphorylation, by downregulating PTP3, the protein tyrosine phosphatase responsible for dephosphorylating STATc. Thus Cbl proteins have an ancient origin but, whereas metazoan Cbl proteins regulate tyrosine kinases, the Dictyostelium Cbl regulates via a tyrosine phosphatase.

Landolt, J. C., et al. (2008). "New species of dictyostelid cellular slime moulds from Australia." Australian System. Bot. 28: 50-66.
	
Lam, D., et al. (2008). "The inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor is required to signal autophagic cell death." Mol. Biol. Cell 19: 691-700.
	
Lam, D. and P. Golstein (2008). "A specific pathway inducing autophagic cell death is marked by an ip3r mutation." Autophagy 4: 349-350.
	
Kuwayama, H., et al. (2008). "DNA oligonucleotide-assisted genetic manipulation increases transformation and homologous recombination efficiencies: evidence from gene targeting of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biotechnol. 133: 418-423.
	
Kubohara, Y., et al. (2008). "Exploitation of the derivatives of Dictyostelium differentiation-inducing factor-1, which promote glucose consumption in mammalian cells." Life Sci 83(17-18): 608-612.
	AIMS: The differentiation-inducing factor-1 (DIF-1) is a signal molecule that induces stalk cell formation in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. DIF-1 has also been shown to possess pharmacological activities, such as the suppression of tumor cell growth and the promotion of glucose uptake in non-transformed mammalian cells. In this study, we tried to develop compounds that possess weaker anti-tumor activity and stronger glucose uptake-promoting activity than DIF-1. MAIN METHODS: We investigated the in vitro effects of 12 derivatives of DIF-1 on glucose consumption in mouse 3T3-L1 cells and on cell growth in K562 human leukemia cells. We also examined the effect of a good compound on the blood glucose concentration in KK-Ay diabetic mice. KEY FINDINGS: We found that some derivatives at 20 microM promoted glucose consumption more than twice as fast as the control. Of the derivatives, a compound named DIF-1(3M), which has a weaker anti-leukemic effect than DIF-1, promoted glucose consumption as strongly as DIF-1 in confluent 3T3-L1 cells. While DIF-1 at 20 microM was inhibitory to the cell growth of 3T3-L1, DIF-1(3M) at 20 microM exhibited no inhibitory effect on the growing cells. We also found that DIF-1(3M) injected (10-12.5 mg/kg body weight) intraperitoneally in mice tended to lower the blood glucose concentration. SIGNIFICANCE: The present results open the possibility for the development of new agents that possess strong glucose-uptake-promoting activity but little anti-tumor activity and may have therapeutic potential for the treatment of diabetes and/or obesity.

Krishnan, J. and P. A. Iglesias (2008). "Systems analysis of regulatory processes underlying eukaryotic gradient perception." IEEE Transactions on Circuits and Systems I-Regular Papers: 126-138.
	This paper analyzes regulatory processes involved in the biological process of directed cell locomotion-known as chemotaxis. We focus on the nature of regulation involved in a subprocess of chemotaxis called gradient perception. We examine two different models from a dynamics/control perspective to gain insight into the working mechanisms of these models. One model is a minimal model which reconciles gradient perception to the property of adaptation. The second model is a biochemical model of a lipid network and its regulation by enzymes. In both cases, we focus on the extent of regulation of the modules/networks by inputs, and examine various limiting cases. Both the models and the resulting insights have broader applicability than the context in which they were developed.

Kriebel, P. W., et al. (2008). "Collective cell migration requires vesicular trafficking for chemoattractant delivery at the trailing edge." J Cell Biol 183(5): 949-961.
	Chemoattractant signaling induces the polarization and directed movement of cells secondary to the activation of multiple effector pathways. In addition, chemotactic signals can be amplified and relayed to proximal cells via the synthesis and secretion of additional chemoattractant. The mechanisms underlying such remarkable features remain ill defined. We show that the asymmetrical distribution of adenylyl cyclase (ACA) at the back of Dictyostelium discoideum cells, an essential determinant of their ability to migrate in a head-to-tail fashion, requires vesicular trafficking. This trafficking results in a local accumulation of ACA-containing intracellular vesicles and involves intact actin, microtubule networks, and de novo protein synthesis. We also show that migrating cells leave behind ACA-containing vesicles, likely secreted as multivesicular bodies and presumably involved in the formation of head-to-tail arrays of migrating cells. We propose that similar compartmentalization and shedding mechanisms exist in mammalian cells during embryogenesis, wound healing, neuron growth, and metastasis.

Kosta, A., et al. (2008). "Marked mitochondrial alterations upon starvation without cell death, caspases or Bcl-2 family members." Biochim Biophys Acta 1783(10): 2013-2019.
	Dictyostelium HMX44A cells can withstand starvation under monolayer conditions for a few days without dying. They die only when the differentiation factor DIF-1 is exogenously added. Still, when HMX44A were subjected to starvation without addition of DIF-1 they showed, by electron microscopy and electron tomography, gross mitochondrial lesions including marked cristae alterations with frequent "holes" probably originating from dilated cristae. Since these cells did not die as shown for instance by FACS analysis, these results showed unexpected resilience of cells bearing markedly altered mitochondria, and thus showed that apparently destructive mitochondrial alterations may not lead to cell death. Also, these marked mitochondrial lesions could not be caused by caspases or bcl-2 family members, which these cells do not encode.

Kortholt, A. and P. J. van Haastert (2008). "Highlighting the role of Ras and Rap during Dictyostelium chemotaxis." Cell Signal 20(8): 1415-1422.
	Chemotaxis, the directional movement towards a chemical compound, is an essential property of many cells and has been linked to the development and progression of many diseases. Eukaryotic chemotaxis is a complex process involving gradient sensing, cell polarity, remodelling of the cytoskeleton and signal relay. Recent studies in the model organism Dictyostelium discoideum have shown that chemotaxis does not depend on a single molecular mechanism, but rather depends on several interconnecting pathways. Surprisingly, small G-proteins appear to play essential roles in all these pathways. This review will summarize the role of small G-proteins in Dictyostelium, particularly highlighting the function of the Ras subfamily in chemotaxis.

Kornberg, A. (2008). "Abundant microbial inorganic polyphosphate, poly P kinase are underappreciated." Microbe 3: 119-123.
	
Kolsch, V., et al. (2008). "The regulation of cell motility and chemotaxis by phospholipid signaling." J Cell Sci 121(Pt 5): 551-559.
	Phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K), PTEN and localized phosphatidylinositol (3,4,5)-trisphosphate [PtdIns(3,4,5)P3] play key roles in chemotaxis, regulating cell motility by controlling the actin cytoskeleton in Dictyostelium and mammalian cells. PtdIns(3,4,5)P3, produced by PI3K, acts via diverse downstream signaling components, including the GTPase Rac, Arf-GTPases and the kinase Akt (PKB). It has become increasingly apparent, however, that chemotaxis results from an interplay between the PI3K-PTEN pathway and other parallel pathways in Dictyostelium and mammalian cells. In Dictyostelium, the phospholipase PLA2 acts in concert with PI3K to regulate chemotaxis, whereas phospholipase C (PLC) plays a supporting role in modulating PI3K activity. In adenocarcinoma cells, PLC and the actin regulator cofilin seem to provide the direction-sensing machinery, whereas PI3K might regulate motility.

Klein, J. C., et al. (2008). "Actin-binding cleft closure in myosin II probed by site-directed spin labeling and pulsed EPR." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 105(35): 12867-12872.
	We present a structurally dynamic model for nucleotide- and actin-induced closure of the actin-binding cleft of myosin, based on site-directed spin labeling and electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) in Dictyostelium myosin II. The actin-binding cleft is a solvent-filled cavity that extends to the nucleotide-binding pocket and has been predicted to close upon strong actin binding. Single-cysteine labeling sites were engineered to probe mobility and accessibility within the cleft. Addition of ADP and vanadate, which traps the posthydrolysis biochemical state, influenced probe mobility and accessibility slightly, whereas actin binding caused more dramatic changes in accessibility, consistent with cleft closure. We engineered five pairs of cysteine labeling sites to straddle the cleft, each pair having one label on the upper 50-kDa domain and one on the lower 50-kDa domain. Distances between spin-labeled sites were determined from the resulting spin-spin interactions, as measured by continuous wave EPR for distances of 0.7-2 nm or pulsed EPR (double electron-electron resonance) for distances of 1.7-6 nm. Because of the high distance resolution of EPR, at least two distinct structural states of the cleft were resolved. Each of the biochemical states tested (prehydrolysis, posthydrolysis, and rigor), reflects a mixture of these structural states, indicating that the coupling between biochemical and structural states is not rigid. The resulting model is much more dynamic than previously envisioned, with both open and closed conformations of the cleft interconverting, even in the rigor actomyosin complex.

Klein, J. C. (2008). Molecular dynamics of myosin II by site-directed spin-labeling and EPR. United States -- Minnesota, University of Minnesota.
	The actin-binding cleft is a deep, solvent-filled cavity that extends from the actin-binding interface to the nucleotide-binding pocket of skeletal myosin. The cleft has been predicted to close partially upon ATP hydrolysis and to close fully with strong actin binding, as is predicted by existing myosin crystal structures. Paradoxically, none of these crystal structures contains actin. We present a structurally dynamic model for nucleotide- and actin-induced closure of the actin-binding cleft, based on site-directed spin labeling and electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) in Dictyostelium myosin II. To test the validity of crystal structures, we compared experimental EPR measureables to those extracted from trajectories of computational simulations of spin-labeled crystal structures. Single-cysteine labeling sites were engineered to probe mobility and accessibility within the cleft. For these sites, addition of ADP and vanadate, trapping the post-hydrolysis biochemical state, influenced probe mobility and accessibility slightly, while actin binding caused more dramatic changes in accessibility, consistent with cleft closure. Explicit incorporation of the spin label side chain in computational simulations of structural models yielded results in closer agreement with experiment. We engineered five pairs of cysteine labeling sites to straddle the cleft, each pair having one label on the upper 50 kDa domain and one on the lower 50 kDa domain. Distances between spin-labeled sites were determined from the resulting spin-spin interactions, as measured by CW-EPR for distances 0.7-2 nm or DEER for distances 1.7-6 nm. Due to the high distance resolution of EPR, at least two distinct structural states of the cleft were resolved. Each of the biochemical states tested (pre-hydrolysis, post-hydrolysis, and rigor), reflects a mixture of at least two of these structural states, indicating that the coupling between biochemical and structural states is not rigid. The resulting picture is much more dynamic than previously envisioned, with both "open" and "closed" conformations of the cleft interconverting, even in the rigor actomyosin complex.

Kirsten, J. H., et al. (2008). "Subcellular localization of ammonium transporters in Dictyostelium discoideum." BMC Cell Biol 9: 71.
	BACKGROUND: With the exception of vertebrates, most organisms have plasma membrane associated ammonium transporters which primarily serve to import a source of nitrogen for nutritional purposes. Dictyostelium discoideum has three ammonium transporters, Amts A, B and C. Our present work used fluorescent fusion proteins to determine the cellular localization of the Amts and tested the hypothesis that the transporters mediate removal of ammonia generated endogenously from the elevated protein catabolism common to many protists. RESULTS: Using RFP and YFP fusion constructs driven by the actin 15 promoter, we found that the three ammonium transporters were localized on the plasma membrane and on the membranes of subcellular organelles. AmtA and AmtB were localized on the membranes of endolysosomes and phagosomes, with AmtB further localized on the membranes of contractile vacuoles. AmtC also was localized on subcellular organelles when it was stabilized by coexpression with either the AmtA or AmtB fusion transporter. The three ammonium transporters exported ammonia linearly with regard to time during the first 18 hours of the developmental program as revealed by reduced export in the null strains. The fluorescently tagged transporters rescued export when expressed in the null strains, and thus they were functional transporters. CONCLUSION: Unlike ammonium transporters in most organisms, which import NH3/NH4+ as a nitrogen source, those of Dictyostelium export ammonia/ammonium as a waste product from extensive catabolism of exogenously derived and endogenous proteins. Localization on proteolytic organelles and on the neutral contractile vacuole suggests that Dictyostelium ammonium transporters may have unique subcellular functions and play a role in the maintenance of intracellular ammonium distribution. A lack of correlation between the null strain phenotypes and ammonia excretion properties of the ammonium transporters suggests that it is not the excretion function that is important for coupling ammonia levels to the slug versus culmination choice, but rather a sensor and/or signaling function of these proteins that is important.

Kintses, B., et al. (2008). "Experimental investigation of the seesaw mechanism of the relay region that moves the myosin lever arm." J Biol Chem 283(49): 34121-34128.
	A seesaw-like movement of the relay region upon the recovery step of myosin was recently simulated in silico. In this model the relay helix tilts around its pivoting point formed by a phenylalanine cluster (Phe(481), Phe(482), and Phe(652)), which moves the lever arm of myosin. To study the effect of the elimination of the proposed pivoting point, these phenylalanines were mutated to alanines in two Dictyostelium myosin II motor domain constructs (M(F481A, F482A) and M(F652A)). The relay movement was followed by the fluorescence change of Trp(501) located in the relay region. The steady-state and transient kinetic fluorescence experiments showed that the lack of the phenylalanine fulcrum perturbs the formation of the "up" lever arm state, and only moderate effects were found in the nucleotide binding, the formation of the "down" lever arm position, and the ATP hydrolysis steps. We conclude that the lack of the fulcrum decouples the distal part of the relay from the nucleotide binding site upon the recovery step. Our molecular dynamics simulations also showed that the conformation of the motor is not perturbed by the mutation in the down lever arm state, however, the lack of the pivoting point rearranges the dynamic pattern of the kink region of the relay helix.

King, J. S. and R. H. Insall (2008). "Chemotaxis: TorC before you Akt." Curr Biol 18(18): R864-866.
	Chemotaxis uses intertwined signalling pathways, each individually dispensable. Recent work shows that Dictyostelium PKB/Akt can be spatially regulated independently of phosphatidylinositol (3,4,5)-trisphosphate via phosphorylation by TOR complex 2, placing this complex at the hub of chemotaxis.

Kim, J., et al. (2008). "Linear time-varying models can reveal non-linear interactions of biomolecular regulatory networks using multiple time-series data." Bioinformatics 24(10): 1286-1292.
	MOTIVATION: Inherent non-linearities in biomolecular interactions make the identification of network interactions difficult. One of the principal problems is that all methods based on the use of linear time-invariant models will have fundamental limitations in their capability to infer certain non-linear network interactions. Another difficulty is the multiplicity of possible solutions, since, for a given dataset, there may be many different possible networks which generate the same time-series expression profiles. RESULTS: A novel algorithm for the inference of biomolecular interaction networks from temporal expression data is presented. Linear time-varying models, which can represent a much wider class of time-series data than linear time-invariant models, are employed in the algorithm. From time-series expression profiles, the model parameters are identified by solving a non-linear optimization problem. In order to systematically reduce the set of possible solutions for the optimization problem, a filtering process is performed using a phase-portrait analysis with random numerical perturbations. The proposed approach has the advantages of not requiring the system to be in a stable steady state, of using time-series profiles which have been generated by a single experiment, and of allowing non-linear network interactions to be identified. The ability of the proposed algorithm to correctly infer network interactions is illustrated by its application to three examples: a non-linear model for cAMP oscillations in Dictyostelium discoideum, the cell-cycle data for Saccharomyces cerevisiae and a large-scale non-linear model of a group of synchronized Dictyostelium cells. AVAILABILITY: The software used in this article is available from http://sbie.kaist.ac.kr/software

Kim, J., et al. (2008). "Evaluation of stochastic effects on biomolecular networks using the generalized Nyquist stability criterion." Ieee Transactions on Automatic Control 53(8): 1937-1941.
	Stochastic differential equations. are now commonly used to model biomolecular networks in systems biology, and much recent research has been devoted to the development of methods to analyse their stability properties. Stability analysis of such systems may be performed using the Laplace transform, which requires the calculation of the exponential matrix involving time symbolically. However, the calculation of the symbolic exponential matrix is not feasible for problems of even moderate size, as the required computation time increases exponentially with the matrix order. To address this issue, we present a novel method for approximating the Laplace transform which does not require the exponential matrix to be calculated explicitly. The calculation time associated with the proposed method does not increase exponentially with the size of the system, and the approximation error is shown to be of the same order as existing methods. Using this approximation method, we show how a straightforward application of the generalized Nyquist stability criterion provides necessary and sufficient conditions for the stability of stochastic biomolecular networks. The usefulness and computational efficiency of the proposed method is illustrated through its application to the problem of analysing a model for limit-cycle oscillations in cAMP during aggregation of Dictyostelium cells.

Kikuchi, H., et al. (2008). "Biological activities of novel derivatives of DIF-1 isolated from Dictyostelium." Biochem Biophys Res Commun 377(3): 1012-1017.
	The differentiation-inducing factor-1 (DIF-1) is a lipophilic signal molecule (chlorinated alkylphenone) that induces stalk cell differentiation in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. In addition, DIF-1 and its derivatives have been shown to possess anti-leukemic activity and glucose consumption-promoting activity in vitro in mammalian cells. In this study, to assess the chemical structure-effect relationship of DIF-1, we synthesized eight derivatives of DIF-1 and investigated their stalk cell-inducing activity in Dictyostelium cells and pharmacological activities in mammalian cells. Of the derivatives, two amide derivatives of DIF-1, whose hydrophobic indexes are close to that of DIF-1, induced stalk cell differentiation as strongly as DIF-1 in Dictyostelium cells. It was also found that some derivatives suppressed cell growth in human K562 leukemia cells and promoted glucose consumption in mouse 3T3-L1 cells. These results give us valuable information as to the chemical structure-effect relationship of DIF-1.

Keller, T. and C. R. Thompson (2008). "Cell type specificity of a diffusible inducer is determined by a GATA family transcription factor." Development 135(9): 1635-1645.
	One poorly understood mechanism of developmental patterning involves the intermingled differentiation of different cell types that then sort out to generate pattern. Examples of this are known in nematodes and vertebrates, and in Dictyostelium it is the major mechanism. However, a general problem with this mechanism is the possibility that different inducers are required for each cell type that arises independently of positional information. Consistent with this idea, in Dictyostelium the signalling molecule DIF acts as a position-independent signal and was thought only to regulate the differentiation of a single cell type (pstO). The results presented here challenge this idea. In a novel genetic selection to isolate genes required for DIF signal transduction, we found a mutant (dimC(-)) that is a hypomorphic allele of a GATA family transcription factor (gtaC). gtaC expression is directly regulated by DIF, and GtaC rapidly translocates to the nucleus in response to DIF. gtaC(-) null cells showed some hallmark DIF signalling defects. Surprisingly, other aspects of the mutant were distinct from those of other DIF signalling mutants, suggesting that gtaC regulates a subset of DIF responses. For example, pstO cell differentiation appeared normal. However, we found that pstB cells were mislocalised and the pstB-derived basal disc was much reduced or missing. These defects are due to a failure to respond to DIF as they are phenocopied in other DIF signalling mutants. These findings therefore identify a novel small-molecule-activated GATA factor that is required to regulate the cell type-specific effects of DIF. They also reveal that a non-positional signal can regulate the differentiation of multiple cell types through differential interpretation in receiving cells.

Keener, M. E. (2008). Studies of the actin binding activity of Dictyostelium discoideum myosin II heavy chain kinase A. United States -- North Carolina, The University of North Carolina at Greensboro.
	Dictyostelium discoideum is a primitive, eukaryotic organism that relies on myosin II and actin contraction for cytokinesis, migration, and other important cellular processes. In order for contraction to occur, myosin II monomers must first assemble into bipolar filaments. In Dictyostelium, bipolar filament assembly is negatively regulated by myosin heavy chain (MHC) phosphorylation. Three kinases have been shown to catalyze MHC phosphorylation (MHCK-A, -B, -C), driving myosin II disassembly. Of the three, MHCK-A is the most extensively studied. Structurally, MHCK-A is comprised of three functional domains: an N-terminal coiled coil region (CC), a catalytic domain, and a WD repeat domain. The CC domain has been shown, in vitro, to bind and bundle actin filaments and inhibit myosin II binding to F-actin. The studies described in this thesis focus on two aims: (1) to understand the role of the CC domain in reorganizing myosin II and actin within the cell and (2) to determine if intramolecular interactions between the CC and WD repeat domains within the MHCK-A molecule are involved in regulating the kinase's activity. To address the first aim, the Triton Cytoskeleton Ghost Isolation Assay was conducted on Ax2, Ax2 + GFP-CC, Ax2 + GFP-C800A, MHK-A null, and MHK-A null + GFP-CC cell lines containing various truncations to determine the analyze the effects of over-expressing the CC domain on myosin II and F-actin organization within the cell. Complementary localization studies were also conducted involving Ax2 wild-type cells and GFP-tagged cells over-expressing the CC domain (GFP-CC) to visually determine myosin II and actin localization within the cell via confocal imaging. Results from the Triton cytoskeleton studies indicate that over-expression of the CC domain in the Ax2 cells leads to an increase in cytoskeletal myosin II. MHK-A null and MHK-A null cells over-expressing the CC domain showed a significant increase in cytoskeletal myosin II in comparison to the Ax2 cells. However, the CC domain had no apparent effect in the absence of endogenous MHCK-A as indicated by the relatively equal amounts of myosin II in both MHK-A null and MHK-null + GFP-CC pellet fractions. Ax2 + GFP-C800A cells exhibit essentially the same level of cytoskeletal myosin II compared to that of the Ax2 cells. Localization studies revealed increased amounts of cytoplasmically-localized myosin II aggregates in the Ax2 + GFP-CC cells in comparison to the Ax2 cells. Also, cells over-expressing the CC domain appear to have more cytoplasmic F-actin than the Ax2 cells. Furthermore, the actin appears to be more aggregated in the CC cells. To address the second aim, purified CC and GST-tagged WD repeat domains were subjected to a GST "pull-down" assay and Western blot to determine if an interaction between the domains exists. Results from these experiments revealed no interaction between the WD repeat and CC domains, evident by the absence of CC in the GST-WD bead-associated fraction. This study shows that the CC domain plays an integral role in reorganizing the actin-myosin cytoskeleton and that the mechanisms regulating the full-length kinase do not appear to be determined by WD repeat and CC domain interactions.

Kay, R. R., et al. (2008). "Changing directions in the study of chemotaxis." Nature Reviews Molecular Cell Biology 9(6): 455-463.
	Chemotaxis-the guided movement of cells in chemical gradients-probably first emerged in our single-celled ancestors and even today is recognizably similar in neutrophils and amoebae. Chemotaxis enables immune cells to reach sites of infection, allows wounds to heal and is crucial for forming embryonic patterns. Furthermore, the manipulation of chemotaxis may help to alleviate disease states, including the metastasis of cancer cells. This review discusses recent results concerning how cells orientate in chemotactic gradients and the role of phosphatidylinositol-3,4,5-trisphosphate, what produces the force for projecting pseudopodia and a new role for the endocytic cycle in movement.

Kawakami, S. and H. Hagiwara (2008). "A taxonomic revision of two dictyostelid species, Polysphondylium pallidum and P. album." Mycologia 100(1): 111-121.
	To reevaluate two dictyostelid species, namely, Polysphondylium pallidum and P. album, 92 isolates of the P. pallidum complex from their type localities were examined based on mating relationships and morphological characteristics. In the mating tests three heterothallic mating groups were found among the isolates. They also were different morphologically from each other. These results suggested that they belonged to distinct taxa. By comparison of the three mating groups with the type specimens of P. pallidum and P. album, two of them were identified as P. pallidum and P. album. Based on the examined isolates P. pallidum and P. album were redescribed in detail.

Kawakami, S. and H. Hagiwara (2008). "Polysphondylium multicystogenum sp. nov., a new dictyostelid species from Sierra Leone, West Africa." Mycologia 100(2): 347-351.
	Polysphondylium multicystogenum, a new heterothallic species of dictyostelids, is described based on three isolates collected from soils in Sierra Leone, West Africa. This species is characterized by sorophores with a combination of clavate base and ovoid to oblong tip cell, smaller spores and abundant microcyst production under the usual culture conditions for sorocarp formation at 20 C. This is the first report of Polysphondylium producing such abundant microcysts.

Katayama, T. and H. Yasukawa (2008). "Developmental and spatial expression of sir2 genes in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Microbes and Environments 23(1): 40-43.
	The cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum grows as unicellular free-living amoebae in the presence of nutrients. Upon starvation, the amoebae aggregate and form multicellular structures that each consist of a stalk and spores. D. discoideum encodes at least four proteins (Sir2A, Sir2B, Sir2C, and Sir2D) homologous to human SIRT. RT-PCR and WISH analyses showed that the genes for Sir2A, Sir2C, and Sir2D were expressed at high levels in growing cells but at decreased levels in developing cells, whereas the gene encoding Sir2B was expressed in the prestalk-cell region in the developmental phase.

Katayama, T. and H. Yasukawa (2008). "Analysis of Sir2E in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum: cellular localization, spatial expression and overexpression." Dev Growth Differ 50(8): 645-652.
	It has been reported that Dictyostelium discoideum encodes four silent information regulator 2 (Sir2) proteins (Sir2A-D) showing sequence similarity to human homologues of Sir2 (SIRT1-3). Further screening in a database revealed that D. discoideum encodes an additional Sir2 homologue (Sir2E). The amino acid sequence of Sir2E is not similar to those of SIRTs but is similar to those of proteins encoded by Giardia lamblia, Cryptosporidium hominis and Cryptosporidium parvum. Fluorescence of Sir2E-green fluorescent protein fusion protein was detected in the D. discoideum nucleus, indicating that Sir2E is a nuclear localizing protein. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and whole-mount in situ hybridization analyses showed that D. discoideum expressed sir2E in amoebae in the growth phase and in prestalk cells in the developmental phase. D. discoideum overexpressing sir2E grew faster than the wild type. These results indicate that Sir2E plays important roles both in the growth phase and developmental phase of D. discoideum.

Kastner, P. M., et al. (2008). Cytokinesis in Dictyostelium discoideum is regulated by a SIN-related pathway. ASCB 47th int. meeting, Washington, DC.
	meeting abstract

Kamimura, Y., et al. (2008). "PIP3-independent activation of TorC2 and PKB at the cell's leading edge mediates chemotaxis." Curr Biol 18(14): 1034-1043.
	BACKGROUND: Studies show that high phosphotidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate (PIP(3)) promotes cytoskeletal rearrangements and alters cell motility and chemotaxis, possibly through activation of protein kinase Bs (PKBs). However, chemotaxis can still occur in the absence of PIP(3), and the identities of the PIP(3)-independent pathways remain unknown. RESULTS: Here, we outline a PIP(3)-independent pathway linking temporal and spatial activation of PKBs by Tor complex 2 (TorC2) to the chemotactic response. Within seconds of stimulating Dictyostelium cells with chemoattractant, two PKB homologs, PKBA and PKBR1, mediate transient phosphorylation of at least eight proteins, including Talin, PI4P 5-kinase, two Ras GEFs, and a RhoGap. Surprisingly, all of the substrates are phosphorylated with normal kinetics in cells lacking PI 3-kinase activity. Cells deficient in TorC2 or PKB activity show reduced phosphorylation of the endogenous substrates and are impaired in chemotaxis. The PKBs are activated through phosphorylation of their hydrophobic motifs via TorC2 and subsequent phosphorylation of their activation loops. These chemoattractant-inducible events are restricted to the cell's leading edge even in the absence of PIP(3). Activation of TorC2 depends on heterotrimeric G protein function and intermediate G proteins, including Ras GTPases. CONCLUSIONS: The data lead to a model where cytosolic TorC2, encountering locally activated small G protein(s) at the leading edge of the cell, becomes activated and phosphorylates PKBs. These in turn phosphorylate a series of signaling and cytoskeletal proteins, thereby regulating directed migration.

Jurkowski, T. P., et al. (2008). "Human DNMT2 methylates tRNA(Asp) molecules using a DNA methyltransferase-like catalytic mechanism." Rna 14(8): 1663-1670.
	Although their amino acid sequences and structure closely resemble DNA methyltransferases, Dnmt2 proteins were recently shown by Goll and colleagues to function as RNA methyltransferases transferring a methyl group to the C5 position of C38 in tRNA(Asp). We observe that human DNMT2 methylates tRNA isolated from Dnmt2 knock-out Drosophila melanogaster and Dictyostelium discoideum. RNA extracted from wild type D. melanogaster was methylated to a lower degree, but in the case of Dictyostelium, there was no difference in the methylation of RNA isolated from wild-type and Dnmt2 knock-out strains. Methylation of in vitro transcribed tRNA(Asp) confirms it to be a target of DNMT2. Using site directed mutagenesis, we show here that the enzyme has a DNA methyltransferase-like mechanism, because similar residues from motifs IV, VI, and VIII are involved in catalysis as identified in DNA methyltransferases. In addition, exchange of C292, which is located in a CFT motif conserved among Dnmt2 proteins, strongly reduced the catalytic activity of DNMT2. Dnmt2 represents the first example of an RNA methyltransferase using a DNA methyltransferase type of mechanism.

Joseph, J. M., et al. (2008). "The actinome of Dictyostelium discoideum in comparison to actins and actin-related proteins from other organisms." PLoS One 3(7): e2654.
	Actin belongs to the most abundant proteins in eukaryotic cells which harbor usually many conventional actin isoforms as well as actin-related proteins (Arps). To get an overview over the sometimes confusing multitude of actins and Arps, we analyzed the Dictyostelium discoideum actinome in detail and compared it with the genomes from other model organisms. The D. discoideum actinome comprises 41 actins and actin-related proteins. The genome contains 17 actin genes which most likely arose from consecutive gene duplications, are all active, in some cases developmentally regulated and coding for identical proteins (Act8-group). According to published data, the actin fraction in a D. discoideum cell consists of more than 95% of these Act8-type proteins. The other 16 actin isoforms contain a conventional actin motif profile as well but differ in their protein sequences. Seven actin genes are potential pseudogenes. A homology search of the human genome using the most typical D. discoideum actin (Act8) as query sequence finds the major actin isoforms such as cytoplasmic beta-actin as best hit. This suggests that the Act8-group represents a nearly perfect actin throughout evolution. Interestingly, limited data from D. fasciculatum, a more ancient member among the social amoebae, show different relationships between conventional actins. The Act8-type isoform is most conserved throughout evolution. Modeling of the putative structures suggests that the majority of the actin-related proteins is functionally unrelated to canonical actin. The data suggest that the other actin variants are not necessary for the cytoskeleton itself but rather regulators of its dynamical features or subunits in larger protein complexes.

Jin, T., et al. (2008). "Chemotaxis, chemokine receptors and human disease." Cytokine 44(1): 1-8.
	Cell migration is involved in diverse physiological processes including embryogenesis, immunity, and diseases such as cancer and chronic inflammatory disease. The movement of many cell types is directed by extracellular gradients of diffusible chemicals. This phenomenon, referred to as "chemotaxis", was first described in 1888 by Leber who observed the movement of leukocytes toward sites of inflammation. We now know that a large family of small proteins, chemokines, serves as the extracellular signals and a family of G-protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs), chemokine receptors, detects gradients of chemokines and guides cell movement in vivo. Currently, we still know little about the molecular machineries that control chemokine gradient sensing and migration of immune cells. Fortunately, the molecular mechanisms that control these fundamental aspects of chemotaxis appear to be evolutionarily conserved, and studies in lower eukaryotic model systems have allowed us to form concepts, uncover molecular components, develop new techniques, and test models of chemotaxis. These studies have helped our current understanding of this complicated cell behavior. In this review, we wish to mention landmark discoveries in the chemotaxis research field that shaped our current understanding of this fundamental cell behavior and Jay out key questions that remain to be addressed in the future. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

Jeong, S. Y., et al. (2008). Structural and biochemical characteristics of thioredoxin reductase from Dictyostelium discoideum. Febs j.
	Introduction: Thioredoxin reductase (Trr) belongs to a flavoprotein
family of pyridine nucleotide-disulfide oxidoreductase. Trr catalyses the
transfer of the reducing equivalent from NADPH via FAD to the
redox-active disulfide, which then can reduce oxidized thioredoxin. The
reduced thioredoxin serves as an electron donor for the reduction of
disulfide bonds in various proteins.
Methods: Trr and Trr mutants were overexpressed and purified in
Escherichia coli. Biochemical properties of Trr were analyzed by sitedirected
mutagenesis, spectral analysis and X-ray crystallography.
Results: The crystal structure of Trr revealed that the redox-active
disulfide formed between Cys-144 and Cys-147 was juxtaposed to the
isoalloxazine ring of FAD. The mutation at Cys-144 or Cys-147
resulted in complete loss of thioredoxin-reducing activity and changed
spectral properties. Regardless of the presence of NADPH, C144S and
C144A mutant showed the spectral characteristic of the reduced flavin.
In contrast, C147S mutant retained the feature of the oxidized flavin
even with NADPH and showed the strong fluorescence quenching,
indicating that C147S is restricted to the FO conformation.
Conclusions: Our results indicate Dictyostelium discoideum Trr undergoes
the FO/FR conformational change for its catalysis and the point
mutation at each active site cysteine affects the conformational equilibrium.
Also Dictyostelium Trr and its mutants in cysteine are expected
as a model to elucidate the mechanism of the transition between the
FO and FR conformation of thioredoxin reductase.

Jang, W. and R. H. Gomer (2008). "Combining experiments and modelling to understand size regulation in Dictyostelium discoideum." J R Soc Interface 5 Suppl 1: S49-58.
	Little is known about how the sizes of specific organs and tissues are regulated. To try to understand these mechanisms, we have been using a combination of modelling and experiments to study the simple system Dictyostelium discoideum, which forms approximately 20000 cell groups. We found that cells secrete a factor, and as the number of cells increases, the concentration of the factor increases. Diffusion calculations indicated that this lets cells sense the local cell density. Computer simulations predicted, and experiments then showed, that this factor decreases cell-cell adhesion and increases random cell motility. In a group, adhesion forces keep cells together, while random motility forces cause cells to pull apart and separate from each other. As the group size increases above a threshold, the factor concentration goes above a threshold and the cells switch from an adhered state to a separated state. This causes excessively large groups to break apart and/or dissipate, creating an upper limit to group size. In this review, we focus on how computer simulations made testable predictions that led the way to understanding the size regulation mechanism mediated by this factor.

Janetopoulos, C. and R. A. Firtel (2008). "Directional sensing during chemotaxis." FEBS Lett 582(14): 2075-2085.
	Cells have the innate ability to sense and move towards a variety of chemoattractants. We investigate the pathways by which cells sense and respond to chemoattractant gradients. We focus on the model system Dictyostelium and compare our understanding of chemotaxis in this system with recent advances made using neutrophils and other mammalian cell types, which share many molecular components and signaling pathways with Dictyostelium. This review also examines models that have been proposed to explain how cells are able to respond to small differences in ligand concentrations between the anterior leading edge and posterior of the cell. In addition, we highlight the overlapping functions of many signaling components in diverse processes beyond chemotaxis, including random cell motility and cell division.

Jack, C. N., et al. (2008). "Segregate or cooperate- a study of the interaction between two species of Dictyostelium." BMC Evol Biol 8: 293.
	BACKGROUND: A major challenge for evolutionary biology is explaining altruism, particularly when it involves death of one party and occurs across species. Chimeric fruiting bodies of Dictyostelium discoideum and Dictyostelium purpureum develop from formerly independent amoebae, and some die to help others. Here we examine co-aggregation between D. discoideum and D. purpureum, determine its frequency and which party benefits, and the extent of fair play in contribution to the altruistic caste. RESULTS: We mixed cells from both species in equal proportions, and then we analyzed 198 individual fruiting bodies, which always had either a D. discoideum or D. purpureum phenotype (D. discoideum- 98, D. purpureum- 100). Fifty percent of the fruiting bodies that looked like D. discoideum and 22% of the fruiting bodies that looked like D. purpureum were chimeric, though the majority of spores in any given fruiting body belonged to one species (D. discoideum fruiting bodies- 0.85 +/- 0.03, D. purpureum fruiting bodies- 0.94 +/- 0.02). Clearly, there is species level recognition occurring that keeps the cells mostly separate. The number of fruiting bodies produced with the D. discoideum phenotype increased from 225 +/- 32 fruiting bodies when D. discoideum was alone to 486 +/- 61 in the mix treatments. However, the number of D. discoideum spores decreased, although not significantly, from 2.75e7 +/- 1.29e7 spores in the controls to 2.06e7 +/- 8.33e6 spores in the mix treatments. D. purpureum fruiting body and spore production decreased from 719 +/- 111 fruiting bodies and 5.81e7 +/- 1.26e7 spores in the controls to 394 +/- 111 fruiting bodies and 9.75e6 +/- 2.25e6 spores in the mix treatments. CONCLUSION: Both species appear to favor clonality but can cooperate with each other to produce fruiting bodies. Cooperating amoebae are able to make larger fruiting bodies, which are advantageous for migration and dispersal, but both species here suffer a cost in producing fewer spores per fruiting body.

Iwai, S. and T. Q. Uyeda (2008). "Visualizing myosin-actin interaction with a genetically-encoded fluorescent strain sensor." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 105(44): 16882-16887.
	Many proteins have been shown to undergo conformational changes in response to externally applied force in vitro, but whether the force-induced protein conformational changes occur in vivo remains unclear. To reveal the force-induced conformational changes, or strains, within proteins in living cells, we have developed a genetically encoded fluorescent "strain sensor," by combining the proximity imaging (PRIM) technique, which uses spectral changes of 2 GFP molecules that are in direct contact, and myosin-actin as a model system. The developed PRIM-based strain sensor module (PriSSM) consists of the tandem fusion of a normal and circularly permuted GFP. To apply strain to PriSSM, it was inserted between 2 motor domains of Dictyostelium myosin II. In the absence of strain, the 2 GFP moieties in PriSSM are in contact, whereas when the motor domains are bound to F-actin, PriSSM has a strained conformation, leading to the loss of contact and a concomitant spectral change. Using the sensor system, we found that the position of the lever arm in the rigor state was affected by mutations within the motor domain. Moreover, the sensor was used to visualize the interaction between myosin II and F-actin in Dictyostelium cells. In normal cells, myosin was largely detached from F-actin, whereas ATP depletion or hyperosmotic stress increased the fraction of myosin bound to F-actin. The PRIM-based strain sensor may provide a general approach for studying force-induced protein conformational changes in cells.

Iwadate, Y. and S. Yumura (2008). "Actin-based propulsive forces and myosin-II-based contractile forces in migrating Dictyostelium cells." J Cell Sci 121(Pt 8): 1314-1324.
	It has been suggested that myosin II exerts traction forces at the posterior ends and retracting pseudopodia of migrating cells, but there is no direct evidence. Here, using a combination of total internal reflection fluorescence (TIRF) microscopy and force microscopy with a high spatial resolution of approximately 400 nm, we simultaneously recorded GFP-myosin II dynamics and traction forces under migrating Dictyostelium cells. Accumulation of filamentous myosin II and a subsequent increase in traction forces were detected in pseudopodia just before retraction. In the case of motorless myosin II, traction forces did not increase after accumulation, suggesting that the source of the retraction force is the motor activity of accumulated myosin II. Simultaneous recording of F-actin and traction forces revealed that traction forces were exerted under spot-like regions where F-actin accumulated. Cells migrated in a direction counter to the sum of the force vectors exerted at each spot, suggesting that the stress spots act as scaffolds to transmit the propulsive forces at the leading edge generated by actin polymerization.

Iwadate, Y. and S. Yumura (2008). "Molecular dynamics and forces of a motile cell simultaneously visualized by TIRF and force microscopies." Biotechniques 44(6): 739-750.
	Cells must exert traction forces onto the substratum for continuous migration. Molecular dynamics such as actin polymerization at the front of the cell and myosin II accumulation at the rear should play important roles in the exertion of forces required for migration. Therefore, it is important to reveal the relationships between the traction forces and molecular dynamics. Traction forces can be calculated from the deformation of the elastic substratum under a migrating cell. A transparent and colorless elastic substratum with a high refractive index (1.40) and a low Young's modulus (1.0 kPa) were made from a pair of platinum-catalyzed silicones. We used this substratum to develop a new method for simultaneous recording of molecular dynamics and traction forces under a migrating cell in which total internal refractive fluorescence (TIRF) and force microscopies were combined. This new method allows the detection of the spatiotemporal distribution of traction forces produced by individual filopodia in migrating Dictyostelium cells, as well as simultaneous visualization of these traction forces and the dynamics of filamentous myosin II.

Isik, N., et al. (2008). "An Elmo-like protein associated with myosin II restricts spurious F-actin events to coordinate phagocytosis and chemotaxis." Dev Cell 15(4): 590-602.
	Elmo proteins positively regulate actin polymerization during cell migration and phagocytosis through activation of the small G protein Rac. We identified an Elmo-like protein, ElmoA, in Dictyostelium discoideum that unexpectedly functions as a negative regulator of actin polymerization. Cells lacking ElmoA display an elevated rate of phagocytosis, increased pseudopod formation, and excessive F-actin localization within pseudopods. ElmoA associates with cortical actin and myosin II. TIRF microscopic observations of functional ElmoA-GFP reveal that a fraction of ElmoA localizes near the presumptive actin/myosin II cortex and the levels of ElmoA and myosin II negatively correlate with that of polymerizing F-actin. F-actin-regulated dynamic dispersions of ElmoA and myosin II are interdependent. Taken together, our data suggest that ElmoA modulates actin/myosin II at the cortex to prevent excessive F-actin polymerization around the cell periphery, thereby maintaining proper cell shape during phagocytosis and chemotaxis.

Iglesias, P. A. and P. N. Devreotes (2008). "Navigating through models of chemotaxis." Curr Op Cell Biol 20(1): 35-40.
	Chemotaxis in eukaryotic cells involves the coordination of several related but separable processes: motility, polarization, and gradient sensing. Mathematical models that have been proposed to explain chemotaxis typically focus on only one of these processes. We summarize the strengths and weaknesses of the models and point out the need for an integrated model.

Hwang, J. and H. Hagiwara (2008). "Effect of mono- and bicyclic monoterpenoids upon Dictyostelium minutum and Dictyostelium macrocephalum." J. Essential Oil Res. (JEOR) 20: 91-95.
	
Hounslow, A. M., et al. (2008). "Determination of the microscopic equilibrium dissociation constants for risedronate and its analogues reveals two distinct roles for the nitrogen atom in nitrogen-containing bisphosphonate drugs." J Med Chem 51(14): 4170-4178.
	Microscopic equilibrium dissociation constants, k as, were determined for four nitrogen-containing bisphosphonates (N-BP): risedronate and its analogues 2-(2-aminophenyl)-1-hydroxyethylidene-1,1-bisphosphonate, NE 11807, and NE 97220. The proportion of each and of analogues 2-(3'-( N-ethyl)pyridinium)-ethylidenebisphosphonate and 2-(3-piperinidyl)-1-hydroxyethylidene-1,1-bisphosphonate, having a positively charged nitrogen and three negative charges on the bisphosphonate group ("carbocation analogue") at pH 7.5, was calculated. When set in order of increasing potency at inhibiting farnesyl diphosphate (FDP) synthase (their intracellular target), the N-BPs are also ranked in order of decreasing mole fraction of carbocation analogue. However, only a weak correlation exists between potency for inhibiting FDP synthase and potency for inhibiting Dictyostelium discoideum growth. It is concluded that, although high potency for inhibiting FDP synthase is favored when the nitrogen atom in a N-BP is uncharged, N-BPs having a positively charged nitrogen can still be potent inhibitors of Dictyostelium growth owing to favorable interaction with a second, unidentified target.

Hooley, P., et al. (2008). "Eukaryote polyphosphate kinases: is the 'Kornberg' complex ubiquitous?" Trends Biochem Sci 33(12): 577-582.
	Polyphosphate (poly P) is a polymer of up to several hundred phosphate residues and is important to a variety of cell processes. The main poly P synthetic enzyme in many bacteria is poly P kinase 1 (PPK1), which until recently had been detected among eukaryotes in some protists only. There is now evidence for the presence in several other eukaryotes of PPK1 homologues and also a second bacteria-type enzyme, PPK2. The latest genome databases reveal that the 'Kornberg' enzyme complex of three actin-related proteins, termed DdPPK2 in Dictyostelium discoideum, might also be ubiquitous in eukaryotes. Owing to the intimate association of poly P synthesis with the formation of structural fibres, this ubiquity indicates a central role for this molecule in the evolution of eukaryotic cells.

Hirata, K., et al. (2008). "Involvements of a novel protein, Dia2, in cAMP signaling and spore differentiation during Dictyostelium development." Differentiation 76: 310-322.
	
Hilgardt, C., et al. (2008). "Streamless aggregation of Dictyostelium in the presence of isopropylidenadenosin." Biophys. Chem. 132: 9-17.
	
Hickman, M. R. (2008). Ligand-stimulated internalization of a Dictyostelium discoideum G protein-coupled cAMP receptor. United States -- Texas, The University of Texas Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences at Houston.
	The social amoeba, Dictyostelium discoideum , undergoes a remarkable starvation-induced program of development that transforms a population of unicellular amoebae into a fruiting body composed of resistant spores suspended on a stalk. During this development, secreted cAMP drives chemotaxis of the amoebae, leading to their aggregation, and subsequent differentiation and morphogenesis. Four sequentially expressed G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs) for cAMP play critical roles in this process. The first of these, cAR1, is essential for aggregation as it mediates chemotaxis as well as the propagation of secreted cAMP waves throughout aggregating populations. Ligand-induced internalization has been shown to regulate a variety of GPCRs. However, little was known at the outset of this study about the role of internalization in the regulation of cAR1 function or, for that matter, in developmental systems in general. For this study, cAMP-induced cAR1 internalization was assessed by measuring (1) the reduction of cell surface binding sites for [ 3 H]cAMP and (2) the redistribution of YFP-tagged receptors to the cell's interior, cAMP was found to induce little or no loss of ligand binding (LLB) in vegetative cells. However, the ability to induce LLB increased progressively over the initial 6 hrs of development, reaching <70% in cells undergoing aggregation. Despite these reductions in surface binding, detectable cAR1-YFP redistribution could be induced by cAMP only after the cells reached the mound stage (10 hrs) and was found to occur naturally by the ensuing slug stage (18 hrs). Site-directed substitution of a cluster of 5 serines in the receptor's cytoplasmic tail that was previously shown to be the principal site of cAMP-induced cAR1 phosphorylation impaired both LLB and receptor redistribution and furthermore resulted in mound-stage developmental arrest, suggesting that phosphorylation of cAR1 is a prerequisite for its internalization and that cAR1 internalization is required for post-aggregative development. To assess the involvement of clathrin mediated endocytosis, Dictyostelium cells lacking the clathrin light chain gene ( clc- ) or either of two dynamin genes were examined and found to be defective in LLB and, in the case of clc- cells, also cAR1 redistribution and turnover. Furthermore, cAR1 overexpression in clc- cells (like the serine mutant in wild-type cells) promoted developmental arrest in mounds. The mound-arrest phenotype was also recapitulated in a wild-type background by the specific expression of cAR1 in prestalk cells (but not prespore cells), suggesting that development depends critically on internalization and clearance of cAR1 from these cells. Persistent cAR1 expression following aggregation was found to be associated with aberrant expression of prestalk and prespore genes, which may adversely affect development in the prestalk cell lineage. The PI3 kinase-TORC2 signal transduction pathway, known to be important for Dictyostelium chemotaxis and internalization of yeast pheromone receptors, was examined using chemical inhibitors and null cells and found to be necessary for cAR1 internalization. In conclusion, cAR1 was shown to be similar to other GPCRs in that its internalization depends on phosphorylation of cytoplasmic domain serines, utilizes clathrin and dynamin, and involves the TORC2 complex. In addition, the findings presented here that cAR1 internalization is both developmentally regulated and required for normal development represent a novel regulatory paradigm that might pertain to other GPCRs known to play important roles in the development of humans and other metazoans.

Helmick, L., et al. (2008). "Spatiotemporal response of living cell structures in Dictyostelium discoideum with semiconductor quantum dots." Nano Lett 8(5): 1303-1308.
	The ability to monitor the spatial and temporal organization of molecules such as biopolymers within a cell is essential to enable the ability to understand the complexity and dynamics existing in biological processes. However, many limitations currently exist in specifically labeling proteins in living cells. In our study, we incorporate nanometer-sized semiconductor quantum dots (QDs) into living cells for spatiotemporal protein imaging of actin polymers in Dictyostelium discoideum without the necessity of using complicating transmembrane transport approaches. We first demonstrate cytoplasmic distribution of QDs within these living amoebae cells and then show molecular targeting through actin filament labeling. Also, we have developed a microfluidic system to control and visualize the spatiotemporal response of the cellular environment during cell motility, which allows us to demonstrate specific localization control of the QD-protein complexes in living cells. This study provides a valuable tool for the specific targeting and analysis of proteins within Dictyostelium without the encumbrance of transmembrane assisted methods, which has implication in fields including polymer physics, material science, engineering, and biology.

Heinrich, D., et al. (2008). "Actin-cytoskeleton dynamics in non-monotonic cell spreading." Cell Adh Migr 2(2): 58-68.
	The spreading of motile cells on a substrate surface is accompanied by reorganization of their actin network. We show that spreading in the highly motile cells of Dictyostelium is non-monotonic, and thus differs from the passage of spreading cells through a regular series of stages. Quantification of the gain and loss of contact area revealed fluctuating forces of protrusion and retraction that dominate the interaction of Dictyostelium cells with a substrate. The molecular basis of these fluctuations is elucidated by dual-fluorescence labeling of filamentous actin together with proteins that highlight specific activities in the actin system. Front-to-tail polarity is established by the sorting out of myosin-II from regions where dense actin assemblies are accumulating. Myosin-IB identifies protruding front regions, and the Arp2/3 complex localizes to lamellipodia protruded from the fronts. Coronin is used as a sensitive indicator of actin disassembly to visualize the delicate balance of polymerization and depolymerization in spreading cells. Short-lived actin patches that co-localize with clathrin suggest that membrane internalization occurs even when the substrate-attached cell surface expands. We conclude that non-monotonic cell spreading is characterized by spatiotemporal patterns formed by motor proteins together with regulatory proteins that either promote or terminate actin polymerization on the scale of seconds.

Heidel, A. J. and G. Glockner (2008). "Mitochondrial genome evolution in the social amoebae." Mol Biol Evol 25(7): 1440-1450.
	Most mitochondria contain a core set of genes required for mitochondrial function, but beyond this base there are variable genomic features. The mitochondrial genome of the model species Dictyostelium discoideum demonstrated that the social amoebae mitochondrial genomes have a size between those of metazoans and plants, but no comparative study of social amoebae mitochondria has been performed. Here, we present a comparative analysis of social amoebae mitochondrial genomes using D. discoideum, Dictyostelium citrinum, Dictyostelium fasciculatum, and Polysphondylium pallidum. The social amoebae mitochondria have similar sizes, AT content, gene content and have a high level of synteny except for one segmental rearrangement and extensive displacement of tRNAs. From the species that contain the rearrangement, it can be concluded that the event occurred late in the evolution of social amoebae. A phylogeny using 36 mitochondrial genes produced a well-supported tree suggesting that the pairs of D. discoideum/D. citrinum and D. fasciculatum/P. pallidum are sister species although the position of the root is not certain. Group I introns and endonucleases are variable in number and location in the social amoebae. Phylogenies of the introns and endonucleases suggest that there have been multiple recent duplications or extinctions and confirm that endonucleases have the ability to insert into new areas. An analysis of dN/dS ratios in mitochondrial genes revealed that among groups of genes, adenosine triphosphate synthase complex genes have the highest ratio, whereas cytochrome oxidase and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (NADH) dehydrogenase genes had the lowest ratio. The genetic codes of D. citrinum, P. pallidum, and D. fasciculatum are the universal code although D. fasciculatum does not use the TGA stop codon. In D. fasciculatum, we demonstrate for the first time that a mitochondrial genome without the TGA stop codon still uses the release factor RF2 that recognizes TGA. Theories of how the genetic code can change and why RF2 may be a constraint against switching codes are discussed.

Heath, R. J. and R. H. Insall (2008). "Dictyostelium MEGAPs: F-BAR domain proteins that regulate motility and membrane tubulation in contractile vacuoles." J Cell Sci 121(Pt 7): 1054-1064.
	PCH family proteins are fundamentally important proteins, linking membrane curvature events with cytoskeletal reorganisation. One group, the MEGAPs (also called srGAPs and WRPs) contain RhoGAP domains in addition to the F-BAR domain. We disrupted MEGAP1 and MEGAP2 in Dictyostelium both singly and in combination. We found a strong cytoskeletal phenotype in MEGAP1(-) cells and a subtle phototaxis defect in MEGAP2(-) slugs. MEGAP1(-)/2(-) cells have an overabundance of filopodia and slug motility and function are affected. The most dramatic changes, however, are on contractile vacuoles. MEGAP1(-)/2(-) cells empty their contractile vacuoles less efficiently than normal and consequently have three times the usual number. GFP-tagged MEGAP1 localises to tubules of the contractile vacuole network and when vacuoles start to empty they recruit cytosolic GFP-MEGAP1. Mutants in the Saccharomyces homologues RGD1 and RGD2 also show abnormal vacuoles, implying that this role is conserved. Thus, MEGAP is an important regulator of the contractile vacuole network, and we propose that tubulation of the contractile vacuole by MEGAP1 represents a novel mechanism for driving vacuole emptying.

He, X. L. and Y. Li (2008). "A new species of Dictyostelium." Mycotaxon 106: 379-383.
	
Harwood, A. J. (2008). "Dictyostelium development: a prototypic Wnt pathway?" Meth Mol Biol 469: 21-32.
	Although Wnt signaling is ubiquitous within the animal phylogenetic group, it is unclear how it evolved. Genes related to the components of Wnt pathway are found in other eukaryotes and one of the most studied of these non-metazoan organisms is the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum. This organism contains the enzyme GSK-3 and a beta -catenin homolog, Aardvark (Aar). Both are required to regulate pattern formation during multi-cellular stages of Dictyostelium development. Aar is also required for formation of adherens junctions, as seen in animals. Finally, analysis of the completed Dictyostelium genome shows there to be 16 Frizzled (Fz) gene homologs. This chapter discusses Dictyostelium development and the role of these proteins.

Harwood, A. J. (2008). "Monitoring patterns of gene expression in Dictyostelium by beta-galacosidase staining." Meth Mol Biol 469: 33-37.
	Monitoring the spatial distribution of prespore and pstB cell types is a sensitive method to monitor GSK-3 and Aar activity during Dictyostelium development. Cell-specific expression of lacZ marker genes can be readily detected using enzymatic cleavage of the substrate X-gal. This protocol describes a simple method for beta-galactosidase staining in developed Dictyostelium structures.

Harwood, A. J. (2008). "Use of the Dictyostelium stalk cell assay to monitor GSK-3 regulation." Meth Mol Biol 469: 39-43.
	GSK-3 activity mediates cAMP repression of stalk induction of cells in low-density monolayer culture. The lower the GSK-3 activity the greater the percentage of stalk cells formed. This protocol describes a robust and quantitative method utilizing an adapted stalk cell monolayer assay to measure GSK-3 activation.

Harris, M. J. and H. J. Woo (2008). "Energetics of subdomain movements and fluorescence probe solvation environment change in ATP-bound myosin." Eur Biophys J 38(1): 1-12.
	Energetics of conformational changes experienced by an ATP-bound myosin head detached from actin was studied by all-atom explicit water umbrella sampling simulations. The statistics of coupling between large scale domain movements and smaller scale structural features were examined, including the closing of the ATP binding pocket, and a number of key hydrogen bond formations shown to play roles in structural and biochemical studies. The statistics for the ATP binding pocket open/close transition show an evolution of the relative stability from the open state in the early stages of the recovery stroke to the stable closed state after the stroke. The change in solvation environment of the fluorescence probe Trp507 (scallop numbering; 501 in Dictyostelium discoideum) indicates that the probe faithfully reflects the closing of the binding pocket as previously shown in experimental studies, while being directly coupled to roughly the early half of the overall large scale conformational change of the converter domain rotation. The free energy change of this solvation environment change, in particular, is -1.3 kcal/mol, in close agreement with experimental estimates. In addition, our results provide direct molecular level data allowing for interpretations of the fluorescence experiments of myosin conformational change in terms of the de-solvation of Trp side chain.

Gyimesi, M., et al. (2008). "Kinetic characterization of the function of myosin loop 4 in the actin-myosin interaction." Biochemistry 47: 283-291.
	
Gyimesi, M., et al. (2008). "The mechanism of the reverse recovery-step, phosphate release, and actin activation of Dictyostelium myosin II." J. Biol. Chem. 283: 8153-8163.
	
Gruver, J. S., et al. (2008). "3'-phosphoinositides regulate the coordination of speed and accuracy during chemotaxis." Biophys J 95(8): 4057-4067.
	The PI3K/PTEN pathway, as the regulator of 3'-phosphoinositide (3'-PI) dynamics, has emerged as a key regulator of chemoattractant gradient sensing during chemotaxis in Dictyostelium and other cell types. Previous results have shown 3'-PIs to be important for regulating basal cell motility and sensing the direction and strength of the chemoattractant gradient. We examined the chemotaxis of wild-type cells and cells lacking PTEN or PI3K1 and 2 using analytical methods that allowed us to quantitatively discern differences between the genotype's ability to sense and efficiently respond to changes in gradient steepness during chemotaxis. We found that cells are capable of increasing their chemotactic accuracy and speed as they approach a micropipette in a manner that is dependent on the increasing strength of the concentration gradient and 3'-PI signaling. Further, our data show that 3'-PI signaling affects a cell's ability to coordinate speed and direction to increase chemotactic efficiency. Using to our knowledge a new measurement of chemotactic efficiency that reveals the degree of coordination between speed and accuracy, we found that cells also have the capacity to increase their chemotactic efficiency as they approach the micropipette. Like directional accuracy and speed, the increase in chemotactic efficiency of cells with increased gradient strength is sensitive to 3'-PI dysregulation. Our evidence suggests that receptor-driven 3'-PI signaling regulates the ability of a cell to capitalize on stronger directional inputs and minimize the effects of inaccurate turns to increase chemotactic efficiency.

Grunt, M., et al. (2008). "Roots of angiosperm formins: the evolutionary history of plant FH2 domain-containing proteins." BMC Evol Biol 8: 115.
	BACKGROUND: Shuffling of modular protein domains is an important source of evolutionary innovation. Formins are a family of actin-organizing proteins that share a conserved FH2 domain but their overall domain architecture differs dramatically between opisthokonts (metazoans and fungi) and plants. We performed a phylogenomic analysis of formins in most eukaryotic kingdoms, aiming to reconstruct an evolutionary scenario that may have produced the current diversity of domain combinations with focus on the origin of the angiosperm formin architectures. RESULTS: The Rho GTPase-binding domain (GBD/FH3) reported from opisthokont and Dictyostelium formins was found in all lineages except plants, suggesting its ancestral character. Instead, mosses and vascular plants possess the two formin classes known from angiosperms: membrane-anchored Class I formins and Class II formins carrying a PTEN-like domain. PTEN-related domains were found also in stramenopile formins, where they have been probably acquired independently rather than by horizontal transfer, following a burst of domain rearrangements in the chromalveolate lineage. A novel RhoGAP-related domain was identified in some algal, moss and lycophyte (but not angiosperm) formins that define a specific branch (Class III) of the formin family. CONCLUSION: We propose a scenario where formins underwent multiple domain rearrangements in several eukaryotic lineages, especially plants and chromalveolates. In plants this replaced GBD/FH3 by a probably inactive RhoGAP-like domain, preserving a formin-mediated association between (membrane-anchored) Rho GTPases and the actin cytoskeleton. Subsequent amplification of formin genes, possibly coincident with the expansion of plants to dry land, was followed by acquisition of alternative membrane attachment mechanisms present in extant Class I and Class II formins, allowing later loss of the RhoGAP-like domain-containing formins in angiosperms.

Gosset, G., et al. (2008). "Investigation of subcellular acidic compartments using alpha-aminophosphonate 31P nuclear magnetic resonance probes." Anal Biochem 380(2): 184-194.
	The 31P nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) characteristics, toxicity, and cellular penetration of five linear or cyclic alpha-aminophosphonate highly sensitive pH probes were investigated in Dictyostelium discoideum cells and isolated rat hearts and were compared with three phosphonic acid derivatives. The line width broadening at pH approximately pK(a), which was satisfactorily modelized for all compounds, was significantly limited in biological milieu for the new markers, affording a four- to sixfold better accuracy in pH determination. Cellular uptake or washout of nontoxic concentrations (< 15 mM) of alpha-aminophosphonates occurred by rapid passive permeation, whereas standard probes required a much slower fluid-phase pinocytosis and transport processes that could ultimately lead to trapping. Using mild concentrations (< 4 mM) three alpha-aminophosphonates having 6 < pK(a) < 7 allowed an easy and simultaneous 31P NMR determination of cytosolic, acidic, and extracellular compartments in anoxic-reoxygenated or starving D. discoideum.

Gonzalez-Kristeller, D. C., et al. (2008). "The p450 oxidoreductase, RedA, controls development beyond the mound stage in Dictyostelium discoideum." BMC Dev. Biol. 8:8: 10 pages.
	
Glockner, G., et al. (2008). "A first glimpse at the transcriptome of Physarum polycephalum." BMC Genomics 9: 6.
	BACKGROUND: Physarum polycephalum, an acellular plasmodial species belongs to the amoebozoa, a major branch in eukaryote evolution. Its complex life cycle and rich cell biology is reflected in more than 2500 publications on various aspects of its biochemistry, developmental biology, cytoskeleton, and cell motility. It now can be genetically manipulated, opening up the possibility of targeted functional analysis in this organism. METHODS: Here we describe a large fraction of the transcribed genes by sequencing a cDNA library from the plasmodial stage of the developmental cycle. RESULTS: In addition to the genes for the basic metabolism we found an unexpected large number of genes involved in sophisticated signaling networks and identified potential receptors for environmental signals such as light. In accordance with the various developmental options of the plasmodial cell we found that many P. polycephalum genes are alternatively spliced. Using 30 donor and 30 acceptor sites we determined the splicing signatures of this species.Comparisons to various other organisms including Dictyostelium, the closest relative, revealed that roughly half of the transcribed genes have no detectable counterpart, thus potentially defining species specific adaptations. On the other hand, we found highly conserved proteins, which are maintained in the metazoan lineage, but absent in D. discoideum or plants. These genes arose possibly in the last common ancestor of Amoebozoa and Metazoa but were lost in D. discoideum. CONCLUSION: This work provides an analysis of up to half of the protein coding genes of Physarum polycephalum. The definition of splice motifs together with the description of alternatively spliced genes will provide a valuable resource for the ongoing genome project.

Giusti, C., et al. (2008). "Autophagic cell death: analysis in Dictyostelium." Biochim Biophys Acta 1793(9): 1422-1431.
	Autophagic cell death (ACD) can be operationally described as cell death with an autophagic component. While most molecular bases of this autophagic component are known, in ACD the mechanism of cell death proper is not well defined, in particular because in animal cells there is poor experimental distinction between what triggers autophagy and what triggers ACD. Perhaps as a consequence, it is often thought that in animal cells a little autophagy is protective while a lot is destructive and leads to ACD, thus that the shift from autophagy to ACD is quantitative. The aim of this article is to review current knowledge on ACD in Dictyostelium, a very favorable model, with emphasis on (1) the qualitative, not quantitative nature of the shift from autophagy to ACD, in contrast to the above, and (2) random or targeted mutations of in particular the following genes: iplA (IP3R), TalB (talinB), DcsA (cellulose synthase), GbfA, ugpB, glcS (glycogen synthase) and atg1. These mutations allowed the genetic dissection of ACD features, dissociating in particular vacuolisation from cell death.

Giusti, C., et al. (2008). "Analysis of autophagic and necrotic cell death in Dictyostelium." Meth Enzymol 446: 1-15.
	Non-apoptotic cell death types can be conveniently studied in Dictyostelium discoideum, an exceptionally favorable model not only because of its well-known genetic and experimental advantages, but also because in Dictyostelium there is no apoptosis machinery that could interfere with non-apoptotic cell death. We show here how to conveniently demonstrate, assess, and study these non-apoptotic cell death types. These can be generated by use of modifications of the monolayer technique of Rob Kay et al., and either wild-type HMX44A Dictyostelium cells, leading to autophagic cell death, or the corresponding atg1- autophagy gene mutant cells, leading to necrotic cell death. Methods to follow these non-apoptotic cell death types qualitatively and quantitatively will be reported.

Giorgione, J. and M. Clarke (2008). "Heterogeneous modes of uptake for latex beads revealed through live cell imaging of phagocytes expressing a probe for phosphatidylinositol-(3,4,5)-trisphosphate and phosphatidylinositol-(3,4)-bisphosphate." Cell Motil Cytoskeleton 65(9): 721-733.
	Latex beads are the preferred phagocytic substrate in biochemical studies of phagosome composition and maturation. Using living Dictyostelium cells and fluorescent probes, we compared the properties of phagosomes formed to ingest latex beads or digestible prey. Significant differences were found during the initial steps of phagocytosis. During uptake of bacteria or yeast, PHcrac-GFP, a probe that binds to membranes enriched in PI(3,4,5)P(3) and PI(3,4)P(2), always labeled the nascent phagosome and faded shortly after it sealed. However, labeling of bead-containing phagosomes was highly variable. Beads were engulfed by phagosomes either lacking or displaying the PHcrac-GFP label, and that label, if present, often persisted for many minutes, revealing that early trafficking steps for bead-containing phagosomes are quite heterogeneous. Later stages of the endocytic pathway appeared more similar for phagosomes containing prey and latex beads. Both types of phagosomes fused with acidic endosomes while undergoing transport along microtubules, both acquired the V-ATPase and lost it prior to exocytosis, and both bound the late endosome marker vacuolin B, which was transferred to the plasma membrane upon exocytosis. We conclude that caution is needed in extrapolating results from latex bead phagosomes to phagosomes containing physiological substances, especially in early stages of the endocytic pathway.

Ghosh, R., et al. (2008). "Dissecting the functional role of polyketide synthases in Dictyostelium discoideum: biosynthesis of the differentiation regulating factor 4-methyl-5-pentylbenzene-1,3-diol." J Biol Chem 283(17): 11348-11354.
	Dictyostelium discoideum exhibits the largest repository of polyketide synthase (PKS) proteins of all known genomes. However, the functional relevance of these proteins in the biology of this organism remains largely obscure. On the basis of computational, biochemical, and gene expression studies, we propose that the multifunctional Dictyostelium PKS (DiPKS) protein DiPKS1 could be involved in the biosynthesis of the differentiation regulating factor 4-methyl-5-pentylbenzene-1,3-diol (MPBD). Our cell-free reconstitution studies of a novel acyl carrier protein Type III PKS didomain from DiPKS1 revealed a crucial role of protein-protein interactions in determining the final biosynthetic product. Whereas the Type III PKS domain by itself primarily produces acyl pyrones, the presence of the interacting acyl carrier protein domain modulates the catalytic activity to produce the alkyl resorcinol scaffold of MPBD. Furthermore, we have characterized an O-methyltransferase (OMT12) from Dictyostelium with the capability to modify this resorcinol ring to synthesize a variant of MPBD. We propose that such a modification in vivo could in fact provide subtle variations in biological function and specificity. In addition, we have performed systematic computational analysis of 45 multidomain PKSs, which revealed several unique features in DiPKS proteins. Our studies provide a new perspective in understanding mechanisms by which metabolic diversity could be generated by combining existing functional scaffolds.

Geberth, D. and M. T. Hutt (2008). "Predicting spiral wave patterns from cell properties in a model of biological self-organization." Phys Rev E Stat Nonlin Soft Matter Phys 78(3 Pt 1): 031917.
	In many biological systems, biological variability (i.e., systematic differences between the system components) can be expected to outrank statistical fluctuations in the shaping of self-organized patterns. In principle, the distribution of single-element properties should thus allow predicting features of such patterns. For a mathematical model of a paradigmatic and well-studied pattern formation process, spiral waves of cAMP signaling in colonies of the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum, we explore this possibility and observe a pronounced anticorrelation between spiral waves and cell properties (namely, the firing rate) and particularly a clustering of spiral wave tips in regions devoid of spontaneously firing (pacemaker) cells. Furthermore, we observe local inhomogeneities in the distribution of spiral chiralities, again induced by the pacemaker distribution. We show that these findings can be explained by a simple geometrical model of spiral wave generation.

Gaudet, P., et al. (2008). "An anatomy ontology to represent biological knowledge in Dictyostelium discoideum." BMC Genomics 9: 130.
	BACKGROUND: Dictyostelium discoideum is a model system for studying many important physiological processes including chemotaxis, phagocytosis, and signal transduction. The recent sequencing of the genome has revealed the presence of over 12,500 protein-coding genes. The model organism database dictyBase hosts the genome sequence as well as a large amount of manually curated information. RESULTS: We present here an anatomy ontology for Dictyostelium based upon the life cycle of the organism. CONCLUSION: Anatomy ontologies are necessary to annotate species-specific events such as phenotypes, and the Dictyostelium anatomy ontology provides an essential tool for curation of the Dictyostelium genome.

Garcia, G. L. and C. A. Parent (2008). "Signal relay during chemotaxis." J Microsc 231(3): 529-534.
	The ability of cells to migrate in response to external cues, a process known as chemotaxis, is a fundamental phenomenon in biology. It is exhibited by a wide variety of cell types in the context of embryogenesis, angiogenesis, inflammation, wound healing and many other complex physiological processes. Here, we discuss the signals that control the directed migration of the social amoebae Dictyostelium discoideum both as single cells and in the context of group migration. This multi-cellular organism has served as an excellent model system to decipher amoeboid-like leukocyte migration and has played a key role in establishing signalling paradigms in the chemotaxis field. We envision that Dictyostelium will continue to bring forward basic knowledge as we seek to understand the mechanisms regulating group cell migration.

Galardi-Castilla, M., et al. (2008). "SrfB, a member of the Serum Response Factor family of transcription factors, regulates starvation response and early development in Dictyostelium." Dev Biol 316(2): 260-274.
	The Serum Response Factor (SRF) is an important regulator of cell proliferation and differentiation. Dictyostelium discoideum srfB gene codes for an SRF homologue and is expressed in vegetative cells and during development under the control of three alternative promoters, which show different cell-type specific patterns of expression. The two more proximal promoters directed gene transcription in prestalk AB, stalk and lower-cup cells. The generation of a strain where the srfB gene has been interrupted (srfB(-)) has shown that this gene is required for regulation of actin-cytoskeleton-related functions, such as cytokinesis and macropinocytosis. The mutant failed to develop well in suspension, but could be rescued by cAMP pulsing, suggesting a defect in cAMP signaling. srfB(-) cells showed impaired chemotaxis to cAMP and defective lateral pseudopodium inhibition. Nevertheless, srfB(-) cells aggregated on agar plates and nitrocellulose filters 2 h earlier than wild type cells, and completed development, showing an increased tendency to form slug structures. Analysis of wild type and srfB(-) strains detected significant differences in the regulation of gene expression upon starvation. Genes coding for lysosomal and ribosomal proteins, developmentally-regulated genes, and some genes coding for proteins involved in cytoskeleton regulation were deregulated during the first stages of development.

Froquet, R., et al. (2008). "Control of cellular physiology by tm9 proteins in yeast and Dictyostelium." J. Biol. Chem. 283: 6764-6772.
	
Frasca, G., et al. (2008). "Linear patterning of magnetically labeled Dictyostelium cells to display confined development." J. Phys.: Condens. Matter 20: 204149 (204145 pages).
	In severe nutriment conditions, the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum enters a particular life cycle where it forms multicellular patterns to achieve aggregation. Extensively observed from an initial dispersed state, its developmental program can usefully be studied from a confined population to implement theoretical developments regarding biological self-organization. The challenge is then to form a cell assembly of well-defined geometrical dimensions without hindering cell behavior. To achieve this goal, we imposed transient constraints by applying temporary external magnetic gradients to trap magnetically labeled cells. Deposits of various numbers of cells were geometrically characterized for different magnetic exposure conditions. We demonstrated that the cell deposit was organized as a three-dimensional (3D) structure by both stacking layers of cells and extending these layers in the substrate plane. This structure evolves during the aggregation phase, forming periodic aggregative centers along the linear initial pattern.

Franck, C., et al. (2008). "Contact-mediated cell-assisted cell proliferation in a model eukaryotic single-cell organism: an explanation for the lag phase in shaken cell culture." Phys Rev E Stat Nonlin Soft Matter Phys 77(4 Pt 1): 041905-041901 till 041905-041908.
	In cell culture, when cells are inoculated into fresh media, there can be a period of slow (or lag phase) growth followed by a transition to exponential growth. This period of slow growth is usually attributed to the cells' adaptation to a new environment. However, we argue that, based on observations of shaken suspension culture of Dictyostelium discoideum, a model single-cell eukaryote, this transition is due to a density effect. Attempts to demonstrate the existence of implicit cell signaling via long-range diffusible messengers (i.e., soluble growth factors) through cell-medium separation and microfluidic flow perturbation experiments produced negative results. This, in turn, led to the development of a signaling model based on direct cell-to-cell contacts. Employing a scaling argument for the collision rate due to fluid shear, we reasonably estimate the crossover density for the transition into the exponential phase and fit the observed growth kinetics.

Feasley, C. L., et al. (2008). N-Glycosylation of gp130 Implicated in Cell Interactions in Dictyostelium. Glycobiology.
	(145) N-Glycosylation of gp130 Implicated in Cell Interactions in Dictyostelium Christa L. Feasley1; Christopher M. West1; Catherine P. Chia2 1Oklahoma Center for Medical Glycobiology, OUHSC, Oklahoma City, OK; 2University of Nebraska–Lincoln, Lincoln, NE
A 130 kDa plasma membrane glycoprotein (gp130) has been implicated in cell-cell and cell-substratum interactions in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. gp130 is extensively N-glycosylated and probably GPI-anchored. Information about the N-glycans of gp130 may help in the assignment of molecular determinants of the cellular activities. The gp130 sequence predicts an 85 kDa polypeptide with 16 Nglycosylation sequons. SDS-PAGE of PNGase F-digested recombinant gp130 expressed as a soluble glycoprotein in Dictyostelium without its putative GPI anchor suggested a 23 kD shift. Glycosylation site mapping achieved by PNGase F and PNGase A digestion of gp130 tryptic peptides in H2(18)O and analysis by MALDI-TOF-TOF confirmed most of the predicted attachment sites, and most of these were detected in a HILICenriched glycopeptide pool. Monosaccharide compositional analysis demonstrated that gp130 contains only Nacetylglucosamine, mannose and smaller amounts of fucose. Permethylated N-glycans of gp130 were primarily of the N4H8 class, suggesting Man8-type glycans with intersecting and bisecting GlcNAc, as reported in previous biochemical studies and confirmed here using alpha-mannosidase. Low levels of other glycans with the composition N3H8, N2H8, and F1N4H8 were also present. Comparison with overall N-glycans present in vesicular glycoproteins, GPI-anchored glycoproteins, and membrane glycoproteins, showed that these pools have complex yet distinct profiles. gp130 expresses a simple subset of these Nglycans, which correlates with unique properties of gp130 in cell interactions.

Endres, R. G. and N. S. Wingreen (2008). "Accuracy of direct gradient sensing by single cells." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 105(41): 15749-15754.
	Many types of cells are able to accurately sense shallow gradients of chemicals across their diameters, allowing the cells to move toward or away from chemical sources. This chemotactic ability relies on the remarkable capacity of cells to infer gradients from particles randomly arriving at cell-surface receptors by diffusion. Whereas the physical limits of concentration sensing by cells have been explored, there is no theory for the physical limits of gradient sensing. Here, we derive such a theory, using as models a perfectly absorbing sphere and a perfectly monitoring sphere, which, respectively, infer gradients from the absorbed surface particle density or the positions of freely diffusing particles inside a spherical volume. We find that the perfectly absorbing sphere is superior to the perfectly monitoring sphere, both for concentration and gradient sensing, because previously observed particles are never remeasured. The superiority of the absorbing sphere helps explain the presence at the surfaces of cells of signal-degrading enzymes, such as PDE for cAMP in Dictyostelium discoideum (Dicty) and BAR1 for mating factor alpha in Saccharomyces cerevisiae (budding yeast). Quantitatively, our theory compares favorably with recent measurements of Dicty moving up a cAMP gradient, suggesting these cells operate near the physical limits of gradient detection.

Elias, M. and M. Novotny (2008). "cpRAS: a novel circularly permuted RAS-like GTPase domain with a highly scattered phylogenetic distribution." Biol Direct 3: 21.
	A recent systematic survey suggested that the YRG (or YawG/YlqF) family with the G4-G5-G1-G2-G3 order of the conserved GTPase motifs represents the only possible circularly permuted variation of the canonical GTPase structure. Here we show that a different circularly permuted GTPase domain actually does exist, conforming to the pattern G3-G4-G5-G1-G2. The domain, dubbed cpRAS, is a variant of RAS family GTPases and occurs in two types of larger proteins, either inserted into a region homologous to a bacterial group of proteins classified as COG2373 and potentially related to the alpha-2-macroglobulin family (so far a single protein in Dictyostelium) or in combination with a von Willebrand factor type A (VWA) domain. For the latter protein type, which was found in a few metazoans and several distantly related protists, existence in the common ancestor of opisthokonts, Amoebozoa and excavates followed by at least eight independent losses may be inferred. Our findings thus bring further evidence for the importance of parallel reduction of ancestral complexity in the eukaryotic evolution.

Duran, M. B. (2008). PaxB, an orthologue of mammalian paxillin, regulates adhesion, differentiation, and morphogenesis in Dictyostelium discoideum. United States -- New York, City University of New York.
	The adhesion of cells to other cells and to the surrounding extracellular matrix is essential for survival, proliferation, differentiation and migration. Focal adhesions, sites where cells are adhered to their substratum, are also important components for tissue formation and wound repair. As in animal cells, such adhesion is critical for the development of the eukaryote Dictyostelium discoideum . In fact, D. discoideum development displays many of the features of animal embryogenesis such as regulated cell-cell adhesion, cell motility and cell morphogenesis. D. discoideum live as individual cells under vegetative conditions, but develop into a multicellular organism under starvation. Cell-cell adhesion is a vital factor for D. disciodeum morphogenesis and is required for multicellular development past the aggregation stage. As in animals, D. discoideum cell adhesion molecules have a mechanical function and may interact with the signal-transduction processes regulating morphogenesis. One regulator protein, PaxB, is an orthologue of mammalian paxillin, a known focal adhesion molecule. Paxillin functions as a docking site on the plasma membrane for signaling and structural proteins, and has been found to play a role in cell-cell cohesion as well as cell-substrate adhesion. To gain a better understanding of the role and regulation of paxillin, we studied the role of D. disciodeum PaxB in differentiation and development. In particular we describe the effects of PaxB overexpression in adhesion and cell-type differentiation. PaxB overexpressing cells (PaxBOE) exhibit increased cell-cell cohesion in non-nutrient buffer, which is lost when Ca 2+ is chelated by EDTA. This suggests adhesion mediated by PaxB is calcium dependent. Interestingly, cells overexpressing paxB are less adhesive to the substratum under equivalent conditions. We show PaxB undergoes serine phosphorylation. In addition, PaxB undergoes adhesion-dependent tyrosine and serine phosphorylation, which is also Ca 2+ dependent. PaxBOE cells can aggregate and form mounds, but subsequent morphogenesis is blocked. This block can be rescued by addition of wild-type cells, indicating a non-cell autonomous role for PaxB. In these chimeras, wild-type cells predominantly localize to the middle section of the spore mass, while PaxBOE cells preferentially are excluded from the spore mass. Taken together, the data suggest calcium dependent cell-substrate adhesion correlates with changes in PaxB tyrosine and serine phosphorylation. The data also imply that proper PaxB protein expression is required for development past the mound stage and for appropriate cell sorting, cell-type differentiation, cell-cell cohesion, and cell-substrate adhesion.

Du, F., et al. (2008). "Regulation of contractile vacuole formation and activity in Dictyostelium." Embo j 27(15): 2064-2076.
	The contractile vacuole (CV) system is the osmoregulatory organelle required for survival for many free-living cells under hypotonic conditions. We identified a new CV regulator, Disgorgin, a TBC-domain-containing protein, which translocates to the CV membrane at the late stage of CV charging and regulates CV-plasma membrane fusion and discharging. disgorgin(-) cells produce large CVs due to impaired CV-plasma membrane fusion. Disgorgin is a specific GAP for Rab8A-GTP, which also localizes to the CV and whose hydrolysis is required for discharging. We demonstrate that Drainin, a previously identified TBC-domain-containing protein, lies upstream from Disgorgin in this pathway. Unlike Disgorgin, Drainin lacks GAP activity but functions as a Rab11A effector. The BEACH family proteins LvsA and LvsD were identified in a suppressor/enhancer screen of the disgorgin(-) large CV phenotype and demonstrated to have distinct functions in regulating CV formation. Our studies help define the pathways controlling CV function.

Dieckmann, R., et al. (2008). "Monitoring time-dependent maturation changes in purified phagosomes from Dictyostelium discoideum." Meth Mol Biol 445: 327-337.
	The amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum is an established model to study phagocytosis. The sequence of events leading to the internalization and degradation of a particle is conserved in D. discoideum compared to metazoan cells. As its small haploid genome has been sequenced, it is now amenable to genome-wide analysis including organelle proteomics. Therefore, we adapted to Dictyostelium the classical protocol to purify phagosomes formed by ingestion of latex beads particles. The pulse-chase protocol detailed here gives easy access to pure, intact, and synchronized phagosomes from representative stages of the entire process of phagosome maturation. Recently, this protocol was used to generate individual temporal profiles of proteins and lipids during phagosome maturation generating a proteomic fingerprint of six maturation stages (1). In addition, immunolabeling of phagosomes on a coverslip was developed to visualize and quantitate antigen distribution at the level of individual phagosomes.

Deponte, M. (2008). "Programmed cell death in protists." Biochim Biophys Acta 1783(7): 1396-1405.
	Programmed cell death in protists does not seem to make sense at first sight. However, apoptotic markers in unicellular organisms have been observed in all but one of the six/eight major groups of eukaryotes suggesting an ancient evolutionary origin of this regulated process. This review summarizes the available data on apoptotic markers in non-opisthokonts and elucidates potential functions and evolution of programmed cell death. A newly discovered family of caspase-like proteases, the metacaspases, is considered to exert the function of caspases in unicellular organisms. Important results on metacaspases. however. showed that they cannot be always correlated to the measured proteolytic activity during protist cell death. Thus, a major challenge for apoptosis research in a variety of protists remains the identification of the molecular cell death machinery. (C) 2008 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

Delanoe-Ayari, H., et al. (2008). "Changes in the magnitude and distribution of forces at different Dictyostelium developmental stages." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 65: 314-331.
	
de Keijzer, S., et al. (2008). "A spatially restricted increase in receptor mobility is involved in directional sensing during Dictyostelium discoideum chemotaxis." J Cell Sci 121(Pt 10): 1750-1757.
	The directed cell migration towards a chemotactic source, chemotaxis, involves three complex and interrelated processes: directional sensing, cell polarization and motility. Directional sensing allows migrating eukaryotic cells to chemotax in extremely shallow gradients (<2% across the cell body) of the chemoattractant. Although directional sensing has been observed as spatially restricted responses along the plasma membrane, our understanding of the ;compass' of the cell that controls the gradient-induced translocation of proteins during chemotactic movements is still largely lacking. Until now, the dynamical behaviour and mobility of the chemoattractant-receptor molecule has been neglected in models describing the directional sensing mechanisms. Here, we show by single-molecule microscopy an agonist-induced increase in the mobile fraction of cAMP-receptor at the leading edge of chemotacting Dictyostelium discoideum cells. The onset of receptor mobility was correlated to the uncoupling and activation of the Galpha2-protein. A finite-element simulation showed that the increase in mobile fraction of the activated receptor enabled the amplified generation of activated Gbetagamma-dimers at the leading edge of the cell, faithfully representing a primary linear amplification step in directional sensing. We propose here that modulation of the receptor mobility is directly involved in directional sensing and provides a new mechanistic basis for the primary amplification step in current theoretical models that describe directional sensing.

de Felipe, K. S., et al. (2008). "Legionella eukaryotic-like type IV substrates interfere with organelle trafficking." PLoS Pathog 4(8): e1000117.
	Legionella pneumophila, the causative agent of Legionnaires' disease, evades phago-lysosome fusion in mammalian and protozoan hosts to create a suitable niche for intracellular replication. To modulate vesicle trafficking pathways, L. pneumophila translocates effector proteins into eukaryotic cells through a Type IVB macro-molecular transport system called the Icm-Dot system. In this study, we employed a fluorescence-based translocation assay to show that 33 previously identified Legionella eukaryotic-like genes (leg) encode substrates of the Icm-Dot secretion system. To assess which of these proteins may contribute to the disruption of vesicle trafficking, we expressed each gene in yeast and looked for phenotypes related to vacuolar protein sorting. We found that LegC3-GFP and LegC7/YlfA-GFP caused the mis-secretion of CPY-Invertase, a fusion protein normally restricted to the yeast vacuole. We also found that LegC7/YlfA-GFP and its paralog LegC2/YlfB-GFP formed large structures around the yeast vacuole while LegC3-GFP localized to the plasma membrane and a fragmented vacuole. In mammalian cells, LegC2/YlfB-GFP and LegC7/YlfA-GFP were found within large structures that co-localized with anti-KDEL antibodies but excluded the lysosomal marker LAMP-1, similar to what is observed in Legionella-containing vacuoles. LegC3-GFP, in contrast, was observed as smaller structures which had no obvious co-localization with KDEL or LAMP-1. Finally, LegC3-GFP caused the accumulation of many endosome-like structures containing undigested material when expressed in the protozoan host Dictyostelium discoideum. Our results demonstrate that multiple Leg proteins are Icm/Dot-dependent substrates and that LegC3, LegC7/YlfA, and LegC2/YlfB may contribute to the intracellular trafficking of L. pneumophila by interfering with highly conserved pathways that modulate vesicle maturation.

Davila Lopez, M. and T. Samuelsson (2008). "Early evolution of histone mRNA 3' end processing." Rna 14: 1-10.
	
Dalous, J., et al. (2008). "Reversal of cell polarity and actin-myosin cytoskeleton reorganization under mechanical and chemical stimulation." Biophys. J. 94: 1063-1074.
	
Croce, J. C. and D. R. McClay (2008). "Evolution of the Wnt pathways." Meth Mol Biol 469: 3-18.
	Wnt proteins mediate the transduction of at least three major signaling pathways that play central roles in many early and late developmental decisions. They control diverse cellular behaviors, such as cell fate decisions, proliferation, and migration, and are involved in many important embryological events, including axis specification, gastrulation, and limb, heart, or neural development. The three major Wnt pathways are activated by ligands, the Wnts, which clearly belong to the same gene family. However, their signal is then mediated by three separate sets of extracellular, cytoplasmic, and nuclear components that are pathway-specific and that distinguish each of them. Homologs of the Wnt genes and of the Wnt pathways components have been discovered in many eukaryotic model systems and functional investigations have been carried out for most of them. This review extracts available data on the Wnt pathways, from the protist Dictyostelium discoideum to humans, and provides from an evolutionary prospective the overall molecular and functional conservation of the three Wnt pathways and their activators throughout the eukaryotic superkingdom.

Crawley, S. W. and G. P. Cote (2008). "Determinants for substrate phosphorylation by Dictyostelium myosin II heavy chain kinases A and B and eukaryotic elongation factor-2 kinase." Biochim Biophys Acta 1784(6): 908-915.
	The alpha kinases are a widespread family of atypical protein kinases characterized by a novel type of catalytic domain. In this paper the peptide substrate recognition motifs for three alpha kinases, Dictyostelium discoideum myosin heavy chain kinase (MHCK) A and MHCK B and mammalian eukaryotic elongation factor-2 kinase (eEF-2K), were characterized by incorporating amino acid substitutions into a previously identified MHCK A peptide substrate (YAYDTRYRR) (Luo X. et al. (2001) J. Biol. Chem. 276, 17836-43). A lysine or arginine in the P+1 position on the C-terminal side of the phosphoacceptor threonine (P site) was found to be critical for peptide substrate recognition by MHCK A, MHCK B and eEF-2K. Phosphorylation by MHCK B was further enhanced 8-fold by a basic residue in the P+2 position whereas phosphorylation by MHCK A was enhanced 2- to 4-fold by basic residues in the P+2, P+3 and P+4 positions. eEF-2K required basic residues in both the P+1 and P+3 positions to recognize peptide substrates. eEF-2K, like MHCK A and MHCK B, exhibited a strong preference for threonine as the phosphoacceptor amino acid. In contrast, the Dictyostelium VwkA and mammalian TRPM7 alpha kinases phosphorylated both threonine and serine residues. The results, together with a phylogenetic analysis of the alpha kinase catalytic domain, support the view that the metazoan eEF-2Ks and the Dictyostelium MHCKs form a distinct subgroup of alpha kinases with conserved properties.

Cosson, P. and T. Soldati (2008). "Eat, kill or die: when amoeba meets bacteria." Curr Opin Microbiol 11(3): 271-276.
	The core function of the innate immune response, phagocytosis, did not evolve first in metazoans but rather in primitive unicellular eukaryotes. Thus, though amoebae separated from the tree leading to metazoan shortly after the divergence of plants, they share many specific functions with mammalian phagocytic cells. Dictyostelium discoideum is by far the most studied amoeba, and it is proving useful to analyze phagocytosis and intracellular killing of bacteria. Since the basic mechanisms involved appear extremely conserved, Dictyostelium provides novel insights into the function of many new gene products. Bacterial pathogenicity was certainly largely developed to resist predatory amoebae in the environment, and this accounts for the fact that a large number of bacterial virulence traits can be studied using Dictyostelium as a host. This provides a particularly powerful system to analyze the complex interactions between pathogenic bacteria and host cells, where both the Dictyostelium host and the bacteria can be manipulated genetically with relative ease.

Cornillon, S., et al. (2008). "Involvement of Sib proteins in the regulation of cellular adhesion in Dictyostelium discoideum." Euk Cell 7(9): 1600-1605.
	Molecular mechanisms ensuring cellular adhesion have been studied in detail in Dictyostelium amoebae, but little is known about the regulation of cellular adhesion in these cells. Here, we show that cellular adhesion is regulated in Dictyostelium, notably by the concentration of a cellular secreted factor accumulating in the medium. This constitutes a quorum-sensing mechanism allowing coordinated regulation of cellular adhesion in a Dictyostelium population. In order to understand the mechanism underlying this regulation, we analyzed the expression of recently identified Dictyostelium adhesion molecules (Sib proteins) that present features also found in mammalian integrins. sibA and sibC are both expressed in vegetative Dictyostelium cells, but the expression of sibC is repressed strongly in conditions where cellular adhesion decreases. Analysis of sibA and sibC mutant cells further suggests that variations in the expression levels of sibC account largely for changes in cellular adhesion in response to environmental cues.

Colucci, A. M., et al. (2008). "Dictyostelium discoideum as a model host for meningococcal pathogenesis." Med Sci Monit 14(7): BR134-140.
	BACKGROUND: The aim of the present study was to evaluate the possibility of studying meningococcal virulence in a new model organism, Dictyostelium discoideum, a haploid social soil amoeba that is an established host model for several human pathogens, leading to the discovery of novel virulence mechanisms. MATERIAL/METHODS: A number of virulent and hyper-virulent N. meningitidis strains, including isogenic encapsulated, unencapsulated, and lipooligosaccharide (LOS) outer core-defective derivatives, were used to test the ability of D. discoideum to internalize and grow in the presence of bacteria. Intracellular survival of the internalized bacteria was also monitored. RESULTS: Meningococci were internalized and killed by D. discoideum cells. The presence of a capsule did not affect the internalization, but, as in human cells, it increased the resistance of the internalized bacteria. Although both encapsulated and unencapsulated meningococci supported the growth and development of D. discoideum on an agar surface, in liquid medium the encapsulated strains were toxic to the slime mould cells. Toxicity inversely correlated with meningococcal survival in the assay medium that was not favorable to bacterial replication, suggesting that it may be due to some toxic compound released after bacterial autolysis. Intriguingly, unencapsulated isogenic strains efficiently supported Dictyostelium growth in suspension, opening the possibility that the toxicity may be associated with the capsular polysaccharide. CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that several meningococcal virulence determinants, such as the capsular polysaccharide, may be remarkably effective also in Dictyostelium cells, stimulating the use of this model host to search for novel meningococcal virulence determinants.

Clemen, C. S., et al. (2008). "The coronin family of proteins." Subcell Biochem 48: 1-5.
	The coronins, first described in Dictyostelium discoideum in 1991, have meanwhile been detected in all eukaryotes except plants. They belong to the superfamily of WD40-repeat proteins and represent a large family of proteins, which are often involved in cytoskeletal functions. Phylogenetic studies clearly distinguish 12 subfamilies of which six exclusively occur in vertebrates. In the present book we have made a sincere attempt to provide a comprehensive overview on all aspects of coronin proteins including history, structure, subcellular localization and function in different organisms. In addition, we also included a general overview on the WD40 family of proteins and the structurally related Kelch family. The book should be of interest for scientists outside the field, but is more importantly intended as a fast and competent guide for newcomers as well as doctoral and postdoctoral scientists to coronin research in all its facets.

Choi, C. H., et al. (2008). "Methylglyoxal accumulation by glutathione depletion leads to cell cycle arrest in Dictyostelium." Mol Microbiol 70(5): 1293-1304.
	Reduced glutathione (GSH) serves as a primary redox buffer and its depletion causes growth inhibition or apoptosis in many organisms. In Dictyostelium discoideum, the null mutant (gcsA(-)) of gcsA encoding gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase shows growth arrest and developmental defect when GSH is depleted. To investigate the mechanism by which GSH depletion induces growth arrest, a proteomic analysis was performed and aldose reductase (AlrA) was identified as the most prominently induced protein in gcsA(-) cells. Induction of AlrA was dependent on GSH concentration and was repressed by GSH but not effectively by either the reducing agent such as dithiothreitol or overexpression of superoxide dismutase. Methylglyoxal (MG), a toxic alpha-ketoaldehyde, strongly induced alrA expression and AlrA catalysed MG reduction efficiently. The alrA knockdown gcsA(-) cells (gcsA(-)/alrA(as)) exhibited more decreased growth rate than gcsA(-) cells, whereas the gcsA(-) cells overexpressing alrA (gcsA(-)/alrA(oe)) showed the recovery of growth rate. Interestingly, intracellular MG levels were significantly augmented in gcsA(-)/alrA(as) cells compared with gcsA(-) cells following GSH depletion. By contrast, gcsA(-)/alrA(oe) cells showed repression of MG induction. Furthermore, MG treatment inhibited growth of wild-type KAx3 cells, inducing G1 phase arrest. Thus, our findings suggest that MG accumulated by GSH depletion inhibits cell growth in Dictyostelium.

Choe, J. M. (2008). AprA: An autocrine, secreted factor that represses cell proliferation in Dictyostelium discoideum. United States -- Texas, Rice University.
	Dictyostelium cells secrete factors during growth and starvation. AprA (autocrine proliferation repressor), a 60 kDa protein secreted as part of a 150 kDa protein complex, functions as a cell proliferation repressor. In the present study, we expressed recombinant AprA (rAprA) in bacteria. We found that rAprA is bioactive as a proliferation repressor and that rAprA binds to live Dictyostelium cells. rAprA, when added to the growth medium of wild-type and aprA - cells, slows the proliferation of these cells; however, rAprA does not slow the proliferation of crlA - or cfaD - cells. CrlA is a putative receptor, and CfaD is a protein secreted by cells. These findings indicated that rAprA needs CrlA and CfaD to act as a proliferation repressor. However, cells lacking CrlA bound rAprA with high affinity, suggesting that CrlA may not be the receptor for AprA. Thus, AprA binds to cell surface receptors in a signal transduction pathway that involves CrlA and CfaD to negatively regulate cell proliferation.

Cho, J., et al. (2008). "Dephosphorylation of 2,3-bisphosphoglycerate by MIPP expands the regulatory capacity of the Rapoport-Luebering glycolytic shunt." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 105(16): 5998-6003.
	The Rapoport-Luebering glycolytic bypass comprises evolutionarily conserved reactions that generate and dephosphorylate 2,3-bisphosphoglycerate (2,3-BPG). For >30 years, these reactions have been considered the responsibility of a single enzyme, the 2,3-BPG synthase/2-phosphatase (BPGM). Here, we show that Dictyostelium, birds, and mammals contain an additional 2,3-BPG phosphatase that, unlike BPGM, removes the 3-phosphate. This discovery reveals that the glycolytic pathway can bypass the formation of 3-phosphoglycerate, which is a precursor for serine biosynthesis and an activator of AMP-activated protein kinase. Our 2,3-BPG phosphatase activity is encoded by the previously identified gene for multiple inositol polyphosphate phosphatase (MIPP1), which we now show to have dual substrate specificity. By genetically manipulating Mipp1 expression in Dictyostelium, we demonstrated that this enzyme provides physiologically relevant regulation of cellular 2,3-BPG content. Mammalian erythrocytes possess the highest content of 2,3-BPG, which controls oxygen binding to hemoglobin. We determined that total MIPP1 activity in erythrocytes at 37 degrees C is 0.6 mmol 2,3-BPG hydrolyzed per liter of cells per h, matching previously published estimates of the phosphatase activity of BPGM. MIPP1 is active at 4 degrees C, revealing a clinically significant contribution to 2,3-BPG loss during the storage of erythrocytes for transfusion. Hydrolysis of 2,3-BPG by human MIPP1 is sensitive to physiologic alkalosis; activity decreases 50% when pH rises from 7.0 to 7.4. This phenomenon provides a homeostatic mechanism for elevating 2,3-BPG levels, thereby enhancing oxygen release to tissues. Our data indicate greater biological significance of the Rapoport-Luebering shunt than previously considered.

Chida, J., et al. (2008). "Establishment of a new method for precisely determining the functions of individual mitochondrial genes, using Dictyostelium cells." BMC Genet 9: 25.
	BACKGROUND: Disruption of mitochondrial genes may become a powerful tool for elucidating precisely the functions of individual mitochondrial genes. However, it is generally difficult to manipulate genetically mitochondrial genes, because 1) a mitochondrion is surrounded by inner and outer membranes, and 2) there are a large number of mtDNA copies in a single cell. This is the reason why we tried to establish a novel method for disrupting a certain mitochondrial gene (rps4), using Dictyostelium cells. RESULTS: Here, we have developed a new method for specifically disrupting a mitochondrial gene (rps4 ; ribosomal protein subunit S4), by a combination of homologous recombination and delivery of an appropriate restriction endonuclease (SfoI) into mitochondria. First, mitochondrially targeted SfoI whose expression is under control of the tetracycline (Tet)-regulated gene expression system was introduced into cells heteroplasmic with respect to the rps4 gene. Then, the heteroplasmic cells were produced by homologous recombination by use of the construct in which the unique SfoI site and the 5'-half of the rps4 coding region were deleted not to be digested by SfoI, and therefore their mitochondria have both the wild-type mtDNA and the mutant mtDNA with the disrupted rps4 gene. In response to removal of Tet from growth medium, SfoI was selectively delivered into mitochondria and digested only the wild-type mtDNA but not the mutated rps4. Thus one can gain rps4-null cells with only the mutated mtDNA, under the Tet-minus condition. CONCLUSION: The mitochondrial gene-disruption method presented here must be widely useful for precisely determining the functions of individual mitochondrial genes. This is the first report to demonstrate complete and specific mitochondrial gene disruption.

Chen, C., et al. (2008). "Crystallization and preliminary characterization of dihydropteridine reductase from Dictyostelium discoideum." Acta Crystallogr Sect F Struct Biol Cryst Commun 64(Pt 11): 1013-1015.
	Dihydropteridine reductase from Dictyostelium discoideum (dicDHPR) can produce D-threo-BH(4) [6R-(1'R,2'R)-5,6,7,8-tetrahydrobiopterin], a stereoisomer of L-erythro-BH(4), in the last step of tetrahydrobiopterin (BH(4)) recycling. In this reaction, DHPR uses NADH as a cofactor to reduce quinonoid dihydrobiopterin back to BH(4). To date, the enzyme has been purified to homogeneity from many sources. In this report, the dicDHPR-NAD complex has been crystallized using the hanging-drop vapour-diffusion method with PEG 3350 as a precipitant. Rectangular-shaped crystals were obtained. Crystals grew to maximum dimensions of 0.4 x 0.6 x 0.1 mm. The crystal belonged to space group P2(1), with unit-cell parameters a = 49.81, b = 129.90, c = 78.76 A, beta = 100.00 degrees , and contained four molecules in the asymmetric unit, forming two closely interacting dicDHPR-NAD dimers. Diffraction data were collected to 2.16 A resolution using synchrotron radiation. The crystal structure has been determined using the molecular-replacement method.

Charette, S. J. and P. Cosson (2008). "Altered composition and secretion of lysosome-derived compartments in Dictyostelium AP-3 mutant cells." Traffic 9: 588-596.
	
Chamaraux, F., et al. (2008). "Physical model for membrane protrusions during spreading." Phys Biol 5(3): 036009 (036015 pages).
	During cell spreading onto a substrate, the kinetics of the contact area is an observable quantity. This paper is concerned with a physical approach to modeling this process in the case of ameboid motility where the membrane detaches itself from the underlying cytoskeleton at the leading edge. The physical model we propose is based on previous reports which highlight that membrane tension regulates cell spreading. Using a phenomenological feedback loop to mimic stress-dependent biochemistry, we show that the actin polymerization rate can be coupled to the stress which builds up at the margin of the contact area between the cell and the substrate. In the limit of small variation of membrane tension, we show that the actin polymerization rate can be written in a closed form. Our analysis defines characteristic lengths which depend on elastic properties of the membrane-cytoskeleton complex, such as the membrane-cytoskeleton interaction, and on molecular parameters, the rate of actin polymerization. We discuss our model in the case of axi-symmetric and non-axi-symmetric spreading and we compute the characteristic time scales as a function of fundamental elastic constants such as the strength of membrane-cytoskeleton adherence.

Catalano, A. and D. H. O'Day (2008). "Calmodulin-binding proteins in the model organism Dictyostelium: a complete & critical review." Cell. Signal. 20: 277-291.
	
Carilla-Latorre, S., et al. (2008). "Dictyostelium transcriptional responses to Pseudomonas aeruginosa: common and specific effects from PAO1 and PA14 strains." BMC Microbiol 8: 109.
	BACKGROUND: Pseudomonas aeruginosa is one of the most relevant human opportunistic bacterial pathogens. Two strains (PAO1 and PA14) have been mainly used as models for studying virulence of P. aeruginosa. The strain PA14 is more virulent than PAO1 in a wide range of hosts including insects, nematodes and plants. Whereas some of the differences might be attributable to concerted action of determinants encoded in pathogenicity islands present in the genome of PA14, a global analysis of the differential host responses to these P. aeruginosa strains has not been addressed. Little is known about the host response to infection with P. aeruginosa and whether or not the global host transcription is being affected as a defense mechanism or altered in the benefit of the pathogen. Since the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum is a suitable host to study virulence of P. aeruginosa and other pathogens, we used available genomic tools in this model system to study the transcriptional host response to P. aeruginosa infection. RESULTS: We have compared the virulence of the P. aeruginosa PAO1 and PA14 using D. discoideum and studied the transcriptional response of the amoeba upon infection. Our results showed that PA14 is more virulent in Dictyostelium than PA01using different plating assays. For studying the differential response of the host to infection by these model strains, D. discoideum cells were exposed to either P. aeruginosa PAO1 or P. aeruginosa PA14 (mixed with an excess of the non-pathogenic bacterium Klebsiella aerogenes as food supply) and after 4 hours, cellular RNA extracted. A three-way comparison was made using whole-genome D. discoideum microarrays between RNA samples from cells treated with the two different strains and control cells exposed only to K. aerogenes. The transcriptomic analyses have shown the existence of common and specific responses to infection. The expression of 364 genes changed in a similar way upon infection with one or another strain, whereas 169 genes were differentially regulated depending on whether the infecting strain was either P. aeruginosa PAO1 or PA14. Effects on metabolism, signalling, stress response and cell cycle can be inferred from the genes affected. CONCLUSION: Our results show that pathogenic Pseudomonas strains invoke both a common transcriptional response from Dictyostelium and a strain specific one, indicating that the infective process of bacterial pathogens can be strain-specific and is more complex than previously thought.

Calvo-Garrido, J., et al. (2008). "Vacuole membrane protein 1 is an endoplasmic reticulum protein required for organelle biogenesis, protein secretion, and development." Mol Biol Cell 19(8): 3442-3453.
	Vacuole membrane protein 1 (Vmp1) is membrane protein of unknown molecular function that has been associated with pancreatitis and cancer. The social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum has a vmp1-related gene that we identified previously in a functional genomic study. Loss-of-function of this gene leads to a severe phenotype that compromises Dictyostelium growth and development. The expression of mammalian Vmp1 in a vmp1(-) Dictyostelium mutant complemented the phenotype, suggesting a functional conservation of the protein among evolutionarily distant species and highlights Dictyostelium as a valid experimental system to address the function of this gene. Dictyostelium Vmp1 is an endoplasmic reticulum protein necessary for the integrity of this organelle. Cells deficient in Vmp1 display pleiotropic defects in the secretory pathway and organelle biogenesis. The contractile vacuole, which is necessary to survive under hypoosmotic conditions, is not functional in the mutant. The structure of the Golgi apparatus, the function of the endocytic pathway and conventional protein secretion are also affected in these cells. Transmission electron microscopy of vmp1(-) cells showed the accumulation of autophagic features that suggests a role of Vmp1 in macroautophagy. In addition to these defects observed at the vegetative stage, the onset of multicellular development and early developmental gene expression are also compromised.

Calvo-Garrido, J., et al. (2008). "Vacuole membrane protein 1, autophagy and much more." Autophagy 4(6): 835-837.
	Vacuole membrane protein 1 (Vmp1) is a putative transmembrane protein that has been associated with different functions including autophagy, cell adhesion, and membrane traffic. Highly similar proteins are present in lower eukaryotes and plants although a homologue is absent in the fungi lineage. We have recently described the first loss-of-function mutation for a Vmp1 homologue in a model system, Dictyostelium discoideum. Our results give a more comprehensive view of the intricate roles played by this new gene. Dictyostelium Vmp1 is an endoplasmic reticulum-resident protein. Cells deficient in Vmp1 display pleiotropic defects in the context of the secretory pathway such as organelle biogenesis, the endocytic pathway, and protein secretion. The biogenesis of the contractile vacuole, an organelle necessary to survive under hypoosmotic conditions, is compromised as well as the structure of the endoplasmic reticulum and the Golgi apparatus. Transmission electron microscopy also shows abnormal accumulation of aberrant double-membrane vesicles, suggesting a defect in autophagosome biogenesis or maturation. The expression of a mammalian Vmp1 in the Dictyostelium mutant complements the phenotype suggesting a functional conservation during evolution. We are taking the first steps in understanding the function of this fascinating protein and recent studies have brought us more questions than answers about its basic function and its role in human pathology.

Bruhn, H. and M. Steinert (2008). Ch. 12: Dictyostelium, a tractable model host organism for Legionella. Legionella: Molecular Microbiology. K. Heuner and M. Swanson, Caister Academic Press.
	
Breitsprecher, D., et al. (2008). "Clustering of VASP actively drives processive, WH2 domain-mediated actin filament elongation." Embo j 27(22): 2943-2954.
	Vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein (VASP) is a key regulator of dynamic actin structures like filopodia and lamellipodia, but its precise function in their formation is controversial. Using in vitro TIRF microscopy, we show for the first time that both human and Dictyostelium VASP are directly involved in accelerating filament elongation by delivering monomeric actin to the growing barbed end. In solution, DdVASP markedly accelerated actin filament elongation in a concentration-dependent manner but was inhibited by low concentrations of capping protein (CP). In striking contrast, VASP clustered on functionalized beads switched to processive filament elongation that became insensitive even to very high concentrations of CP. Supplemented with the in vivo analysis of VASP mutants and an EM structure of the protein, we propose a mechanism by which membrane-associated VASP oligomers use their WH2 domains to effect both the tethering of actin filaments and their processive elongation in sites of active actin assembly.

Brady, R. J., et al. (2008). "The ENTH and C-terminal domains of Dictyostelium epsin cooperate to regulate the dynamic interaction with clathrin-coated pits." J Cell Sci 121(Pt 20): 3433-3444.
	Epsin contains a phospholipid-binding ENTH domain coupled to C-terminal domain motifs that bind coated pit proteins. We examined how these domains interact to influence epsin function and localization in Dictyostelium. Although not required for global clathrin function, epsin was essential for constructing oval spores during development. Within the epsin protein, we found that features important for essential function were distinct from features targeting epsin to clathrin-coated pits. On its own, the phospholipid-binding ENTH domain could rescue the epsin-null phenotype. Although necessary and sufficient for function, the isolated ENTH domain was not targeted within clathrin-coated pits. The C-terminal domain containing the coated-pit motif was also insufficient, highlighting a requirement for both domains for targeting to coated pits. Replacement of the ENTH domain by an alternative membrane-binding domain resulted in epsin that sequestered clathrin and AP2 and ablated clathrin function, supporting a modulatory role for the ENTH domain. Within the ENTH domain, residues important for PtdIns(4,5)P2 binding were essential for both epsin localization and function, whereas residue T107 was essential for function but not coated pit localization. Our results support a model where the ENTH domain coordinates with the clathrin-binding C-terminal domain to allow a dynamic interaction of epsin with coated pits.

Brady, R. J. (2008). Characterization of the epsin homolog epnA in Dictyostelium discoideum. United States -- Texas, The University of Texas at Austin.
	Clathrin-coated pits on the plasma membrane invaginate into coated vesicles to internalize receptors and membrane. The clathrin adaptor epsin contains an amino-terminal ENTH domain that binds PI(4,5)P2 and a carboxy-terminal domain that binds clathrin, and accessory proteins such as AP2. Here, we assessed how inter- and intramolecular factors affect the contribution of epsin to coated-pit function in living cells. We found Dictyostelium epsin was not required for global clathrin function, but plays an essential role in spore development. We demonstrated that clathrin, but not AP2, was critical for epsin to associate with clathrin-coated pits. We found that the carboxy-terminal region of epsin was essential, but not sufficient, for targeting epsin within clathrin-coated pits on the plasma membrane. In addition to targeting epsin to the membrane, the amino-terminal ENTH domain regulates the interaction between epsin and clathrin, an essential property that cannot be replaced by an alternate PI(4,5)P2 binding domain. Moreover, the ENTH domain facilitates the functional interaction between clathrin and actin during late stages of endocytosis, possibly by regulating the activity of the adaptor Hip1r. Both the ability to bind PI(4,5)P 2 and another function mediated by residue T107 are critical for the activity of the ENTH domain. Our results support a model where the ENTH domain coordinates with the clathrin-binding C-terminal domain to allow a dynamic interaction of epsin with coated pits. Furthermore, we propose that the ENTH domain of epsin facilitates the membrane recruitment and phosphorylation of Hip1r, which in turn mediates the productive interaction of clathrin with the actin cytoskeleton at the plasma membrane.

Bozzaro, S., et al. (2008). "Phagocytosis and host-pathogen interactions in Dictyostelium with a look at macrophages." Int Rev Cell Mol Biol 271: 253-300.
	Research into phagocytosis and host-pathogen interactions in the lower eukaryote Dictyostelium discoideum has flourished in recent years. This chapter presents a glimpse of where this research stands, with emphasis on the cell biology of the phagocytic process and on the wealth of molecular genetic data that have been gathered. The basic mechanistic machinery and most of the underlying genes appear to be evolutionarily conserved, reflecting the fact that phagocytosis arose as an efficient way to ingest food in single protozoan cells devoid of a rigid cell wall. In spite of some differences, the signal transduction pathways regulating phagosome biogenesis are also emerging as ultimately similar between Dictyostelium and macrophages. Both cell types are hosts for many pathogenic invasive bacteria, which exploit phagocytosis to grow intracellularly. We present an overwiew, based on the analysis of mutants, on how Dictyostelium contributes as a genetic model system to decipher the complexity of host-pathogen interactions.

Bourbon, H. M. (2008). "Comparative genomics supports a deep evolutionary origin for the large, four-module transcriptional mediator complex." Nucl Acids Res 36(12): 3993-4008.
	The multisubunit Mediator (MED) complex bridges DNA-bound transcriptional regulators to the RNA polymerase II (PolII) initiation machinery. In yeast, the 25 MED subunits are distributed within three core subcomplexes and a separable kinase module composed of Med12, Med13 and the Cdk8-CycC pair thought to control the reversible interaction between MED and PolII by phosphorylating repeated heptapeptides within the Rpb1 carboxyl-terminal domain (CTD). Here, MED conservation has been investigated across the eukaryotic kingdom. Saccharomyces cerevisiae Med2, Med3/Pgd1 and Med5/Nut1 subunits are apparent homologs of metazoan Med29/Intersex, Med27/Crsp34 and Med24/Trap100, respectively, and these and other 30 identified human MED subunits have detectable counterparts in the amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum, indicating that none is specific to metazoans. Indeed, animal/fungal subunits are also conserved in plants, green and red algae, entamoebids, oomycetes, diatoms, apicomplexans, ciliates and the 'deep-branching' protists Trichomonas vaginalis and Giardia lamblia. Surprisingly, although lacking CTD heptads, T. vaginalis displays 44 MED subunit homologs, including several CycC, Med12 and Med13 paralogs. Such observations have allowed the identification of a conserved 17-subunit framework around which peripheral subunits may be assembled, and support a very ancient eukaryotic origin for a large, four-module MED. The implications of this comprehensive work for MED structure-function relationships are discussed.

Bosgraaf, L., et al. (2008). "PI3-kinase signaling contributes to orientation in shallow gradients and enhances speed in steep chemoattractant gradients." J Cell Sci 121(Pt 21): 3589-3597.
	Dictyostelium cells that chemotax towards cAMP produce phosphatidylinositol (3,4,5)-trisphosphate [PtdIns(3,4,5)P(3)] at the leading edge, which has been implicated in actin reorganization and pseudopod extension. However, in the absence of PtdIns(3,4,5)P(3) signaling, cells will chemotax via alternative pathways. Here we examined the potential contribution of PtdIns(3,4,5)P(3) to chemotaxis of wild-type cells. The results show that steep cAMP gradients (larger than 10% concentration difference across the cell) induce strong PtdIns(3,4,5)P(3) patches at the leading edge, which has little effect on the orientation but strongly enhances the speed of the cell. Using a new sensitive method for PtdIns(3,4,5)P(3) detection that corrects for the volume of cytosol in pixels at the boundary of the cell, we show that, in shallow cAMP gradient (less than 5% concentration difference across the cell), PtdIns(3,4,5)P(3) is still somewhat enriched at the leading edge. Cells lacking PI3-kinase (PI3K) activity exhibit poor chemotaxis in these shallow gradients. Owing to the reduced speed and diminished orientation of the cells in steep and shallow gradients, respectively, cells lacking PtdIns(3,4,5)P(3) signaling require two- to six-fold longer times to reach a point source of chemoattractant compared with wild-type cells. These results show that, although PI3K signaling is dispensable for chemotaxis, it gives the wild type an advantage over mutant cells.

Bornheimer, S. J. (2008). Spatial and temporal regulation of G-protein signaling elucidated by computational modeling and live cell FRET imaging. United States -- California, University of California, San Diego.
	Regulation of G-protein signaling occurs spatially between microdomains of cellular membranes, and temporally due largely to ligand-bound G-protein couple receptors (GPCRs) that speed up G-protein activation and regulator of G-protein signaling (RGS) proteins that speed up deactivation. This dissertation investigates spatial and temporal regulation of G-protein activity primarily through computational modeling and live cell FRET imaging. Computational modeling was used to study how variation in local concentrations of active GPCR, G-protein, and RGS protein affect local G-protein activity and turnover; results predict 16 distinct signaling regimes and numerous intermediate signaling phenomena. Computational methods were also developed to simplify complex biochemical networks; results indicate that a GPCR-G±-RGS complex is required in muscarinic receptor signaling to G±q, and predict that RGS protein can promote biphasic (bell-shaped) dose-response to ligand. To study spatial and temporal regulation of G-protein activity experimentally, two FRET probes of YFP-tagged G±i were developed: GTP-BODIPY TR (for membrane-based high throughput assays) and RGS-CFP (for live-cell imaging). RGS-CFP, unlike previous FRET probes for G-protein activity, is untargeted thereby functioning throughout the cell. RGS-CFP was used to investigate spatial regulation of G-protein activity during cell migration, in which GPCRs and G-proteins are thought, based primarily on chemotaxis of the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum towards GPCR-ligand, to be distributed roughly homogeneously around the plasma membrane with subtly enhanced G-protein signaling at the front of the cell (a.k.a. leading edge). We studied migration in an alternative system: HeLa cells migrating to close a wound. Here, migration required Gi3 (together with a protein called GIV/Girdin) as did associated processes like actin remodeling and Akt activity; spatially, Gi3-YFP translocated from the Golgi to the leading edge where it accumulated and RGS-CFP, which is primarily cytosolic in resting cells, colocalized with Gi3-YFP at the leading edge where high FRET was observed indicating Gi3-YFP activity. These data demonstrate for the first time specific local regulation of G±i activity at the leading edge of cell migrating to close a wound. Taken together, this dissertation combining computational modeling and live cell FRET imaging sets the stage for quantitative research into G-protein signal transduction at the subcellular level.

Bolourani, P., et al. (2008). "Rap1 activation in response to cAMP occurs downstream of ras activation during Dictyostelium aggregation." J. Biol. Chem. 283: 10232-10240.
	
Bloomfield, G., et al. (2008). "Widespread duplications in the genomes of laboratory stocks of Dictyostelium discoideum." Genome Biol 9(4): R75.
	ABSTRACT: BACKGROUND: Duplications of stretches of the genome are an important source of individual genetic variation, but their unrecognized presence in laboratory organisms would be a confounding variable for genetic analysis. RESULTS: We report here that duplications of 15 kb or more are common in the genome of the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum. Most stocks of the axenic 'workhorse' strains Ax2 and Ax3/4 obtained from different laboratories can be expected to carry different duplications. The auxotrophic strains DH1 and JH10 also bear previously unreported duplications. Strain Ax3/4 is known to carry a large duplication on chromosome 2 and this structure shows evidence of continuing instability; we find a further variable duplication on chromosome 5. These duplications are lacking in Ax2, which has instead a small duplication on chromosome 1. Stocks of the type isolate NC4 are similarly variable, though we have identified some approximating the assumed ancestral genotype. More recent wild-type isolates are almost without large duplications, but we can identify small deletions or regions of high divergence, possibly reflecting responses to local selective pressures. Duplications are scattered through most of the genome, and can be stable enough to reconstruct genealogies spanning decades of the history of the NC4 lineage. The expression level of many duplicated genes is increased with dosage, but for others it appears that some form of dosage compensation occurs. CONCLUSION: The genetic variation described here must underlie some of the phenotypic variation observed between strains from different laboratories. We suggest courses of action to alleviate the problem.

Blacklock, B. J., et al. (2008). "A fatty acid elongase ELO with novel activity from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem Biophys Res Commun 374(2): 226-230.
	Fatty acid elongation was examined in the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum. Profiling of the total fatty acid content of D. discoideum indicated that fatty acid elongation is active. Orthologs of the fatty acid elongase ELO family were identified in the D. discoideum genome and the cDNA for one, eloA, was cloned and functionally characterized by expression in yeast. EloA is a highly active ELO with strict substrate specificity for monounsaturated fatty acids, in particular 16:1(Delta9) to produce the unusual 18:1(Delta11) fatty acid. This is the first report on fatty acid elongation in a cellular slime mold.

Beta, C., et al. (2008). "A bistable mechanism for directional sensing." New Journal of Physics 10(8): 083015.
	We present a generic mechanism for directional sensing in eukaryotic cells that is based on bistable dynamics. As the key feature of this modeling approach, the velocity of trigger waves in the bistable sensing system changes its sign across cells that are exposed to an external chemoattractant gradient. This is achieved by combining a two-component activator/inhibitor system with a bistable switch that induces an identical symmetry breaking for arbitrary gradient input signals. A simple kinetic example is designed to illustrate the dynamics of a bistable directional sensing mechanism in numerical simulations.

Beshay, U., et al. (2008). "Growth of myxamoebae of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum in suspension and immobilized form on living bacteria." Process Biochem. 43(11): 1281-1287.
	
Berthold, J., et al. (2008). "Rho GTPases of the RhoBTB subfamily and tumorigenesis." Acta Pharmacologica Sinica 29(3): 285-295.
	RhoBTB proteins constitute a subfamily of atypical members within the Rho family of small guanosine triphosphatases (GTPases). Their most salient feature is their domain architecture: a GTPase domain (in most cases, non-functional) is followed by a proline-rich region, a tandem of 2 broad-complex, tramtrack, bric a brac (BTB) domains, and a conserved C-terminal region. In humans, the RhoBTB subfamily consists of 3 isoforms: RhoBTB1, RhoBTB2, and RhoBTB3. Orthologs are present in several other eukaryotes, such as Drosophila and Dictyostelium, but have been lost in plants and fungi. Interest in RhoBTB arose when RHOBTB2 was identified as the gene homozygously deleted in breast cancer samples and was proposed as a candidate tumor suppressor gene, a property that has been extended to RHOBTB1. The functions of RhoBTB proteins have not been defined yet, but may be related to the roles of BTB domains in the recruitment of cullin3, a component of a family of ubiquitin ligases. A model emerges in which RhoBTB proteins are required to maintain constant levels of putative substrates involved in cell cycle regulation or vesicle transport through targeting for degradation in the 26S proteasome. RhoBTB proteins are engrossing the list of Rho GTPases involved in tumorigenesis. Unlike typical Rho GTPases (usually overexpressed or hyperactive), RhoBTB proteins appear to play a part in the carcinogenic process through a mechanism that involves the decreased or abolished expression of the corresponding genes, or more rarely, mutations that result in impaired functioning of the protein, presumably leading to the accumulation of RhoBTB substrates and alterations of the cellular homeostasis.

Bennett, N., et al. (2008). "Sorting of the v-SNARE VAMP7 in Dictyostelium discoideum: a role for more than one Adaptor Protein (AP) complex." Exp Cell Res 314(15): 2822-2833.
	Soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive-factor Attachment protein Receptors (SNAREs) participate in the specificity of membrane fusions in the cell. The mechanisms of specific SNARE sorting are still however poorly documented. We investigated the possible role of Adaptor Protein (AP) complexes in sorting of the Dictyostelium discoideum v-SNARE VAMP7. In live cells, GFP-VAMP7 is observed in the membrane of endocytic compartments. It is also observed in the plasma membrane of a small proportion of the cells. Mutation of a potential dileucine motif dramatically increases the proportion of cells with GFP-VAMP7 in their plasma membrane, strongly supporting the participation of an AP complex in VAMP7 sorting to the endocytic pathway. A partial increase occurs in knockout cells for the medium subunits of AP-2 and AP-3 complexes, indicating a role for both AP-2 and AP-3. VAMP7, as well as its t-SNAREs partners syntaxin 8 and Vti1, are co-immunoprecipitated with each of the medium subunits of the AP-1, AP-2, AP-3 and AP-4 complexes. This result supports the conclusion that VAMP7 directly interacts with both AP-2 and AP-3. It also raises the hypothesis of an interaction with AP-1 and AP-4. GFP-VAMP7 is retrieved from the endocytic pathway at and/or before the late post-lysosomal stage through an AP-independent mechanism.

Barfoot, R. J., et al. (2008). "Minimal F-actin cytoskeletal system for planar supported phospholipid bilayers." Langmuir 24(13): 6827-6836.
	Preferential binding of F-actin to lipid bilayers containing ponticulin was investigated on both planar supported bilayers and on a cholesterol-based tethering system. The transmembrane protein ponticulin in Dictyostelium discoideum is known to provide a direct link between the actin cytoskeleton and the cell membrane ( Wuestehube, L. J. ; Luna, E. J. J. Cell Biol. 1987, 105, 1741- 1751 ). Purification of ponticulin has allowed an in vitro model of the F-actin cytoskeletal scaffold system to be formed and investigated by AFM, epi-fluorescence microscopy, surface plasmon resonance (SPR), and quartz crystal microbalance with dissipation (QCM-D). Single filament features of F-actin bound to the ponticulin containing lipid bilayer are shown by AFM to have a pitch of 37.3 +/- 1.1 nm and a filament height of 7.0 +/- 1.6 nm. The complementary techniques of QCM-D and SPR were used to obtain dissociation constants for the interaction of F-actin with ponticulin containing bilayers, giving 10.5 +/- 1.7 microM for a physisorbed bilayer and 10.8 +/- 3.6 microM for a tethered bilayer, respectively.

Bakthavatsalam, D., et al. (2008). "The secreted Dictyostelium protein CfaD is a chalone." J Cell Sci 121(Pt 15): 2473-2480.
	Dictyostelium discoideum cells secrete CfaD, a protein that is similar to cathepsin proteases. Cells that lack cfaD proliferate faster and reach a higher stationary-phase density than wild-type cells, whereas cells that overexpress CfaD proliferate slowly and reach the stationary phase when at a low density. On a per-nucleus basis, CfaD affects proliferation but not growth. The drawback of not having CfaD is a reduced spore viability. Recombinant CfaD has no detectable protease activity but, when added to cells, inhibits the proliferation of wild-type and cfaD(-) cells. The secreted protein AprA also inhibits proliferation. AprA is necessary for the effect of CfaD on proliferation. Molecular-sieve chromatography indicates that in conditioned growth medium, the 60 kDa CfaD is part of a approximately 150 kDa complex, and both chromatography and pull-down assays suggest that CfaD interacts with AprA. These results suggest that two interacting proteins may function together as a chalone signal in a negative feedback loop that slows Dictyostelium cell proliferation.

Bagorda, A. and C. A. Parent (2008). "Eukaryotic chemotaxis at a glance." J Cell Sci 121(16): 2621-2624.
	
Baek, K., et al. (2008). "Modulation of actin structure and function by phosphorylation of Tyr-53 and profilin binding." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 105(33): 11748-11753.
	On starvation, Dictyostelium cells aggregate to form multicellular fruiting bodies containing spores that germinate when transferred to nutrient-rich medium. This developmental cycle correlates with the extent of actin phosphorylation at Tyr-53 (pY53-actin), which is low in vegetative cells but high in viable mature spores. Here we describe high-resolution crystal structures of pY53-actin and unphosphorylated actin in complexes with gelsolin segment 1 and profilin. In the structure of pY53-actin, the phosphate group on Tyr-53 makes hydrogen-bonding interactions with residues of the DNase I-binding loop (D-loop) of actin, resulting in a more stable conformation of the D-loop than in the unphosphorylated structures. A more rigidly folded D-loop may explain some of the previously described properties of pY53-actin, including its increased critical concentration for polymerization, reduced rates of nucleation and pointed end elongation, and weak affinity for DNase I. We show here that phosphorylation of Tyr-53 inhibits subtilisin cleavage of the D-loop and reduces the rate of nucleotide exchange on actin. The structure of profilin-Dictyostelium-actin is strikingly similar to previously determined structures of profilin-beta-actin and profilin-alpha-actin. By comparing this representative set of profilin-actin structures with other structures of actin, we highlight the effects of profilin on the actin conformation. In the profilin-actin complexes, subdomains 1 and 3 of actin close around profilin, producing a 4.7 degrees rotation of the two major domains of actin relative to each other. As a result, the nucleotide cleft becomes moderately more open in the profilin-actin complex, probably explaining the stimulation of nucleotide exchange on actin by profilin.

Aubert, D. F., et al. (2008). "A novel sensor kinase-response regulator hybrid controls biofilm formation and type VI secretion system activity in Burkholderia cenocepacia." Infect Immun 76(5): 1979-1991.
	Burkholderia cenocepacia is an important opportunistic pathogen causing serious chronic infections in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF). Adaptation of B. cenocepacia to the CF airways may play an important role in the persistence of the infection. We have identified a sensor kinase-response regulator (BCAM0379) named AtsR in B. cenocepacia K56-2 that shares 19% amino acid identity with RetS from Pseudomonas aeruginosa. atsR inactivation led to increased biofilm production and a hyperadherent phenotype in both abiotic surfaces and lung epithelial cells. Also, the atsR mutant overexpressed and hypersecreted an Hcp-like protein known to be specifically secreted by the type VI secretion system (T6SS) in other gram-negative bacteria. Amoeba plaque assays demonstrated that the atsR mutant was more resistant to Dictyostelium predation than the wild-type strain and that this phenomenon was T6SS dependent. Macrophage infection assays also demonstrated that the atsR mutant induces the formation of actin-mediated protrusions from macrophages that require a functional Hcp-like protein, suggesting that the T6SS is involved in actin rearrangements. Three B. cenocepacia transposon mutants that were found in a previous study to be impaired for survival in chronic lung infection model were mapped to the T6SS gene cluster, indicating that the T6SS is required for infection in vivo. Together, our data show that AtsR is involved in the regulation of genes required for virulence in B. cenocepacia K56-2, including genes encoding a T6SS.

Asano, Y., et al. (2008). "Correlated waves of actin filaments and PIP3 in Dictyostelium cells." Cell Motil Cytoskeleton 65(12): 923-934.
	Chemotaxis-deficient amiB-null mutant Dictyostelium cells show two distinct movements: (1) they extend protrusions randomly without net displacements; (2) they migrate persistently and unidirectionally in a keratocyte-like manner. Here, we monitored the intracellular distribution of phosphatidylinositol (3,4,5)-trisphosphate (PIP(3)) to gain insight into roles PIP(3) plays in those spontaneous motilities. In keratocyte-like cells, PIP(3) showed convex distribution over the basal membrane, with no anterior enrichment. In stalled cells, as well as in wild type cells, PIP(3) repeated wave-like changes, including emergence, expansion and disappearance, on the basal membrane. The waves induced lamellipodia when they approached the cell edge, and the advancing speed of the waves was comparable to the migration speed of the keratocyte-like cells. LY294002, an inhibitor of PI3 kinase, abolished PIP(3) waves in stalled cells and stopped keratocyte-like cells. These results together suggested that keratocyte-like cells are "surfing" on the PIP(3) waves by coupling steady lamellipodial protrusions to the PIP(3) waves. Simultaneous live observation of actin filaments and PIP(3) in wild type or stalled amiB(-) cells indicated that the PIP(3) waves were correlated with wave-like distributions of actin filaments. Most notably, PIP(3) waves often followed actin waves, suggesting that PIP(3) induces local depolymerization of actin filaments. Consistent with this idea, cortical accumulation of PIP(3) was often correlated with local retraction of the periphery. We propose that the waves of PIP(3) and actin filaments are loosely coupled with each other and play important roles in generating spontaneous cell polarity.

Arya, R., et al. (2008). "Purification of recombinant human phosphodiesterase 7A expressed in Dictyostelium discoideum." Protein Expr Purif 61(2): 149-154.
	Phosphodiesterase plays an important role in regulating inflammatory pathways and T cell function. The development of phosphodiesterase 7 inhibitor may give better efficacy profile over phosphodiesterase 4 inhibitors. However, the recombinant phosphodiesterase 7 is required in large quantity for high-throughput screening of new drugs by in vitro enzymatic assays. In the present study, recombinant human PDE7A1 was expressed in Dictyostelium discoideum under the control of constitutively active actin-15 promoter. The cytosolic localization of the expressed protein was confirmed by immunofluorescence studies. Upto 2 mg of recombinant protein was purified using His-Tag affinity column chromatography followed by ion-exchange Resource Q column purification. The recombinant protein expressed in D. discoideum followed Michaelis-Menten kinetics similar to the protein expressed in mammalian system and showed no major changes in affinity to substrate or inhibitors. Thus, our study clearly demonstrates a robust expression system for successful bulk production of pharmacologically active isoform of human PDE7A1 required for high-throughput assays.

Arya, R., et al. (2008). "Dictyostelium discoideum--a promising expression system for the production of eukaryotic proteins." FASEB J 22(12): 4055-4066.
	In general, four different expression systems, namely, bacterial, yeast, baculovirus, and mammalian, are widely used for the overproduction of biochemical enzymes and therapeutic proteins. Clearly, bacterial expression systems offer ease of maneuverability with respect to large-scale production of recombinant proteins, while, a baculovirus expression system ensures proper protein modifications, processing, and refolding of complex proteins. Despite these advantages, mammalian cells remain the preferred host for many eukaryotic proteins of pharmaceutical importance, particularly, those requiring post-translational modifications. Recently, the single-celled slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum (Dd), has emerged as a promising eukaryotic host for the expression of a variety of heterologous recombinant eukaryotic proteins. This organism possesses the complex cellular machinery required for orchestrating post-translational modifications similar to the one observed in higher eukaryotes. This review summarizes the advantages and disadvantages of Dictyostelium as an alternate system compared to other well-established expression systems. The key lessons learned from the expression of human recombinant proteins in this system are reviewed. Also, the strengths, weaknesses, and challenges associated with industrial-scale production of proteins in Dd expression system are discussed.

Arya, R., et al. (2008). "Production and characterization of pharmacologically active recombinant human phosphodiesterase 4B in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biotechnol J 3(7): 938-947.
	Phosphodiesterase 4B (PDE4B) is an important therapeutic target for asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. To identify PDE4 subtype-specific compounds using high-throughput assays, full-length recombinant PDE4 proteins are needed in bulk quantity. In the present study, full-length human PDE4B2 was expressed in the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum (Dd). A cell density of 2 x 10(7) cells/mL was obtained and up to 1 mg/L recombinant PDE4B2 was purified through Ni-NTA affinity chromatography. The expressed protein was soluble and its activity was comparable to PDE4B2 protein expressed in mammalian cells (K(m)=1.7 microM). The functional significance of the Dd expression system is supported by the demonstration that, in concert with proteins expressed in mammalian systems, there are no major changes in the affinity for PDE4B2 inhibitors and substrates. These findings thus provide the first evidence that Dd can be utilized for the expression and purification of functionally active full-length human PDE4B2 in large amounts required for high-throughput screening of pharmacologically active compounds against this therapeutic target.

Araki, T., et al. (2008). "Evidence that DIF-1 and hyper-osmotic stress activate a Dictyostelium STAT by inhibiting a specific protein tyrosine phosphatase." Development 135(7): 1347-1353.
	STATc becomes tyrosine phosphorylated and accumulates in the nucleus when Dictyostelium cells are exposed to the prestalk cell inducer Differentiation inducing factor 1 (DIF-1), or are subjected to hyper-osmotic stress. We show that the protein tyrosine phosphatase PTP3 interacts directly with STATc and that STATc is refractory to activation in PTP3 overexpressing cells. Conversely, overexpression of a dominant inhibitor of PTP3 leads to constitutive tyrosine phosphorylation and ectopic nuclear localisation of STATc. Treatment of cells with DIF-1 or exposure to hyper-osmotic stress induces a decrease in biochemically assayable PTP3 activity and both agents also induce serine-threonine phosphorylation of PTP3. These observations suggest a novel mode of STAT activation, whereby serine-threonine phosphorylation of a cognate protein tyrosine phosphatase results in the inhibition of its activity, shifting the phosphorylation-dephosphorylation equilibrium in favour of phosphorylation.

Aragao, K. S., et al. (2008). "Structure determination of Discoidin II from Dictyostelium discoideum and carbohydrate binding properties of the lectin domain." Proteins 73(1): 43-52.
	The social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum adopts a cohesive stage upon starvation and then produces Discoidin I and II, two proteins able to bind galactose and N-acetyl-galactosamine. The N-terminal domain or discoidin domain (DS) is widely distributed in eukaryotes where it plays a role in extracellular matrix binding while the C-terminal domain displays sequence similarities to invertebrate lectins. We present the first X-ray structures of the wild-type and recombinant Discoidin II in unliganded state and in complex with monosaccharides. The protein forms a homotrimer which presents two binding surfaces situated on the opposite boundaries of the structure. The binding sites of the N-terminal domain contain PEG molecules that could mimics binding of natural ligand. The C-terminal lectin domain interactions with N-acetyl-D-galactosamine and methyl-beta-galactoside are described. The carbohydrate binding sites are located at the interface between monomers. Specificity for galacto configuration can be rationalized since the axial O4 hydroxyl group is involved in several hydrogen bonds with protein side chains. Titration microcalorimetry allowed characterization of affinity and demonstrated the enthalpy-driven character of the interaction. Those results highlight the structural differentiation of the DS domain involved in many cell-adhesion processes from the lectin activity of Dictyostelium discoidins.

Anjard, C. and W. F. Loomis (2008). "Cytokinins induce sporulation in Dictyostelium." Development 135: 819-827.
	
Alibaud, L., et al. (2008). "Pseudomonas aeruginosa virulence genes identified in a Dictyostelium host model." Cell. Microbiol. 10: 729-740.
	
Agafonov, R. V., et al. (2008). "Muscle and nonmuscle myosins probed by a spin label at equivalent sites in the force-generating domain." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 105(36): 13397-13402.
	We have engineered a mutant of Dictyostelium discoideum (Dicty) myosin II that contains the same fast-reacting "SH1" thiol as in muscle myosin, spin-labeled it, and performed electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) to compare the structure of the force-generating region of the two myosins. Dicty myosin serves as a model system for muscle myosin because of greater ease of mutagenesis, expression, and crystallization. The catalytic domains of these myosins have nearly identical crystal structures in the apo state, but there are significant differences in ATPase kinetics, and there are no crystal structures of skeletal muscle myosin with bound nucleotides, so another structural technique is needed. Previous EPR studies, with a spin label attached to SH1 in muscle myosin, have resolved the key structural states of this region. Therefore, we have performed identical experiments on both myosins spin-labeled at equivalent sites. Spectra were identical for the two myosins in the apo and ADP-bound states. With bound ADP and phosphate analogs, (i) both proteins exhibit two resolved structural states (prepowerstroke, postpowerstroke) in a single biochemical state (defined by the bound nucleotide), and (ii) these structural states are essentially identical in the two myosins but (iii) are occupied to different extents as a function of the biochemical state. We conclude that (i) myosin structural and biochemical states do not have a one-to-one correspondence, and (ii) Dicty myosin can serve as a good analog for structural studies of muscle myosin only if differences in the coupling between biochemical and structural states are taken into account.

Zucko, J., et al. (2007). "Polyketide synthase genes and the natural products potential of Dictyostelium discoideum." Bioinformatics 23: 2543-2549.
	
Zhang, M., et al. (2007). "Regulation of G protein-coupled cAMP receptor activation by a hydrophobic residue in transmembrane helix 3." Mol. Microbiol. 65: 508-520.
	
Zhang, H., et al. (2007). "Polyphosphate kinase 1, a conserved bacterial enzyme, in a eukaryote, Dictyostelium discoideum, with a role in cytokinesis." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 104: 16486-16491.
	
Zaki, M., et al. (2007). "Replacement of the essential Dictyostelium Arp2 gene by its Entamoeba homologue using parasexual genetics." BMC Genet. 8:28: 12 pages.
	
Yoshino, T., et al. (2007). "The real factor for polypeptide elongation in Dictyostelium cells is EF-2B, not EF-2A." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 359: 586-591.
	
Yoshino, R., et al. (2007). "Regulation of ammonia homeostasis by the ammonium transporter AmtA in Dictyostelium discoideum." Euk. Cell 6: 2419-2428.
	
Yamada, A., et al. (2007). "Phenotypic plasticity of Escherichia coli at initial stage of symbiosis with Dictyostelium discoideum." Biosystems 92: 1-9.
	
Xu, X., et al. (2007). "Attenuation of phospholipid signaling provides a novel mechanism for the action of valproic acid." Euk. Cell 6: 899-906.
	
Xu, X., et al. (2007). "Locally controlled inhibitory mechanisms are involved in eukaryotic GPCR-mediated chemosensing." J. Cell Biol. 178: 141-153.
	
Wyatt, D. (2007). Chemotaxis in microfluid channels. Ithaca, NY, Cornell University: 99.
	
Wilhelm, C., et al. (2007). "Magnetic control of Dictyostelium aggregation." Phys. Rev. E 75: 041906.
	
Whitney, T. J. (2007). SAGE: A powerful technique used to analyze transcription profiles in lymphangioleiomyomatosis-derived cells and in Dictyostelium amoeba. United States -- Idaho, Idaho State University.
	Serial Analysis of Gene Expression (SAGE) identifies quantitative transcription levels of genes in a particular cell/tissue type, essentially defining the transcriptome. We used SAGE to understand the genes that define Dictyostelium amoeba and to understand the type of cells that cause LAM. The transcriptome of Dictyostelium amoeba contains high levels of transcripts involved in protein translation, cell-maintenance, and metabolism. Ribosomal protein genes were among the most numerous and the most highly transcribed and many cell-signaling genes are expressed. An unexpected result is relatively high levels of many developmental genes including dutA, the most highly represented transcript in our library. Our complete analysis of the amoebae stage SAGE library identifies nearly all of the genes necessary to define amoeba, and provides a reference for comparison with libraries from other stages of development and other amoeba species. LAM is a rare, progressive, lung disease that strikes young women. LAM cells exhibit characteristics that define malignant cells including a progressive nature and the ability to invade adjacent tissues, suggesting that LAM cells are malignant. We constructed a SAGE library from primary LAM-derived cultured cells and compared it to normal lung cells in order to test this hypothesis. Transcription levels of many housekeeping genes, such as is equivalent in both LAM and normal libraries. Genes that are previously reported to be mutated in some forms of LAM, such as TSC1 and TSC2 are not detectable or present at lower levels in LAM cells. Pulmonary-associated transcripts. such as surfactant genes are among the most highly represented in normal lung cells, but are essentially absent in LAM-derived cells, suggesting that LAM cells do not originate from lung cells. Finally, we observed a significant increase in expression of hundreds of transcripts previously reported to be involved in malignant processes such as invasion, metastasis, angiogenesis and tissue remodeling. Examples of these genes include those involved in TGF-² signaling as well as TGF-² responsive genes, several MMPs, and TIMPs 1 and 2. Our findings clearly support the hypothesis that LAM cells have genetically increased metastatic potential, and they appear to metastasize to the lung from another tissue source.

West, C. M., et al. (2007). "Prolyl 4-hydroxylase-1 mediates O2 signaling during development of Dictyostelium." Development 134: 3349-3358.
	
Wessels, D., et al. (2007). "PTEN plays a role in the suppression of lateral pseudopod formation during Dictyostelium motility and chemotaxis." J. Cell Sci. 120: 2517-2531.
	
Wang, Q., et al. (2007). "The SH3 domain of a M7 interacts with its C-terminal proline-rich region." Prot. Sci. 16: 189-196.
	
Waligorska, A., et al. (2007). "Some difficulties in research into cell motile activity under isotropic conditions." Folia Biol. (Krakow) 55: 9-16.
	
Waligorska, A., et al. (2007). "Motile activities of Dictyostelium discoideum differ from those in Protista or vertebrate animal cells." Folia Biol (Krakow) 55(3-4): 87-93.
	Cell movement in the amoebae Dictyostelium discoideum has been examined in media differing in monovalent cation concentration (i.e. Na+ and K+). Under isotonic or even slightly hypertonic conditions, the cells move equally well in solutions in which either potassium or sodium ions dominate. However, in strongly hypertonic solutions the amoebae showed motility in a 2% potassium chloride solution, but remained motionless in a hypertonic 2% sodium chloride solution. This inhibition of D. discoideum amoebae movement in a hypertonic sodium chloride solution was fully reversible. Such behaviour corresponds to that of plant, fungi, and some invertebrate animal cells rather than protozoan or vertebrate cells. These observations suggest that studies using D. discoideum as a model for cell motility in vertebrate animal tissue cells should be considered with caution, and would seem to confirm the classification of cellular slime moulds as related rather to Fungi than to Protista. This also shows that the cell membrane models should consider the asymmetry in sodium/potassium ion concentrations found in vertebrate animal cells as one of various possibilities.

Vourekas, A., et al. (2007). "A 40.7 kDa Rpp30/Rpp1 homologue is a protein subunit of Dictyostelium discoideum RNase P holoenzyme." Biochimie 89: 301-310.
	
von Philipsborn, A. and M. Bastmeyer (2007). "Mechanisms of gradient detection: a comparison of axon pathfinding with eukaryotic cell migration." Int. Rev. Cytol. 263: 1-62.
	
Vats, B. and H. Padh (2007). "Development of soil amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum as an expression system for recombinant human erythropoietin." World J. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 23: 1511-1518.
	
van Kuilenburg, A. B., et al. (2007). "Clinical, biochemical and genetic findings in two siblings with a dihydropyrimidinase deficiency." Mol. Genet. Metab. 91: 157-164.
	
van Haastert, P. J. and D. M. Veltman (2007). "Chemotaxis: navigating by multiple signaling pathways." Sci. STKE 2007: pe40.
	
van Haastert, P. J. and M. Postma (2007). "Biased random walk by stochastic fluctuations of chemoattractant-receptor interactions at the lower limit of detection." Biophys. J. 93: 1787-1796.
	
van Haastert, P. J., et al. (2007). "Essential role of PI3-kinase and phospholipase A2 in Dictyostelium discoideum chemotaxis." J. Cell Biol. 177: 809-816.
	
Van Driessche, N., et al. (2007). "Global transcriptional responses to cisplatin in Dictyostelium discoideum identify potential drug targets." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 104: 15406-15411.
	
Vadell, E. M. and J. C. Cavender (2007). "Dictyostelids living in the soils of the Atlantic forest, Iguazu region, Misiones, Argentina: description of new species." Mycologia 99: 112-124.
	
Tsujioka, M., et al. (2007). "Dictyostelium Myb transcription factors function at culmination as activators of ancillary stalk differentiation." Euk. Cell 6: 568-570.
	
Tresse, E., et al. (2007). "From autophagic to necrotic cell death in Dictyostelium." Semin. Cancer Biol. 17: 94-100.
	
Traynor, D. and R. R. Kay (2007). "Possible roles of the endocytic cycle in cell motility." J. Cell Sci. 120: 2318-2327.
	
Tiago, T., et al. (2007). "Binding modes of decavanadate to myosin and inhibition of the actomyosin ATPase activity." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1774: 474-480.
	
Tiaden, A., et al. (2007). "The Legionella pneumophila response regulator LqsR promotes host cell interactions as an element of the virulence regulatory network controlled by RpoS and LetA." Cell. Microbiol. 9: 2903-2920.
	
Tannenbaum, E. (2007). "When does division of labor lead to increased system output?" J. Theor. Biol. 247: 413-425.
	
Tang, S., et al. (2007). "Predicting allosteric communication in myosin via a pathway of conserved residues." J. Mol. Biol. 373: 1361-1373.
	
Tang, L. (2007). Tsunami is required for directional responses of Dictyostelium in chemotactic gradients during development. Baltimore, MD, The Johns Hopkins University: 96.
	
Takeda, K., et al. (2007). "Role of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinases in chemotaxis in Dictyostelium." J. Biol. Chem. 282: 11874-11884.
	
Suwwan de Felipe, K. (2007). Inter-kingdom horizontal gene transfer: a new mechanism for the acquisition of Legionella pneumophila type IV effectors. New York, NY, Columbia University: 219.
	
Strmecki, L., et al. (2007). "Proteomic and microarray analyses of the Dictyostelium Zak1-GSK-3 signaling pathway reveal a role in early development." Euk. Cell 6: 245-252.
	
Strassmann, J. E. and D. C. Queller (2007). Altruism among amoebas. Natural History. Sept.: 24-29.
	
Steinert, M., et al. (2007). "Legionella pathogenicity: genome structure, regulatory networks and the host cell response." Int. J. Med. Microbiol. 297: 577-587.
	
Sousa-Canavez, J. M., et al. (2007). "Identification and domain mapping of Dictyostelium discoideum type-1 protein phosphatase inhibitor-2." Biochimie 89: 692-701.
	
Soon, L. L. (2007). "A discourse on cancer cell chemotaxis: where to from here?" Iubmb Life 59: 60-67.
	
Smith, M. G., et al. (2007). "New insights into Acinetobacter baumannii pathogenesis revealed by high-density pyrosequencing and transposon mutagenesis." Genes Devel. 21: 601-614.
	
Shpakov, A. O. (2007). "[guanylyl cyclases of unicellular eukaryotes: structure, function, and regulatory properties]." Tsitologiia 49: 617-630.
	
Shimada, N. and T. Kawata (2007). "Evidence that noncoding RNA dutA is a multicopy suppressor of Dictyostelium discoideum STAT protein Dd-STATa." Euk. Cell 6: 1030-1040.
	
Shaulsky, G. and R. H. Kessin (2007). "The cold war of the social amoebae." Curr. Biol. 17: R684-R692.
	
Serafimidis, I., et al. (2007). "A new environmentally resistant cell type from Dictyostelium." Microbiology 153: 619-630.
	
Schon, E. A. (2007). "Appendix 3. Linearized maps of circular mitochondrial genomes from representative organisms." Meth. Cell Biol. 80: 827-829.
	
Schlierf, M., et al. (2007). "Direct observation of active protein folding using lock-in force spectroscopy." Biophys. J. 93: 3989-3998.
	
Schiller, B., et al. (2007). The N-glycosylation potential of Dictyostelium discoideum. Febs j.
	N-linked glycosylation is a major post-translational modification
of proteins, but details about structures and the enzymes responsible
for their biosynthesis are lacking for many organisms. In the
case of Dictyostelium discoideum, we began by using Western blotting
with an antiserum raised against a plant glycoprotein (horseradish
peroxidase), which recognises core alpha1,3-fucose; these
data indicate that core fucose is expressed by AX3 during starvation
in suspension, at the pseudoplasmodial stage and in fruiting
bodies. As shown by mass spectrometry of wild-type glycans, there
is a developmental shift as soon as the pseudoplasmodial stage is
reached, from larger species such as Hex8HexNAc4Fuc1 and
Hex8HexNAc3 to smaller types like Hex4HexNAc2Fuc1. Linkage
analysis of Hex8HexNAc4Fuc1 revealed the finding of a novel
structure with both inter- and bisecting GlcNAc as well as core fucose.
Such fucosylation is missing from the HL250 mutant strain,
even though, both AX3 and HL250 strains possess a core alpha
1,3-fucosyltransferase activity, as shown by HPLC and linkage
analysis. The fucosylation defect in HL250 is due to a mutation in
GDP-D-Mannose-4,6-Dehydratase (GMD), one of the two
enzymes necessary for enzymatic transformation of GDP-mannose
into GDP-fucose. Expression of recombinant forms showed that
the AX3 GMD is active, whereas the HL250-encoded form is not.
In summary, modern methods verify that Dictyostelium has a
novel N-glycomic potential and that it possess core fucosylation of
the type found in plants and invertebrates.

Schaloske, R. H., et al. (2007). "Arachidonic acid is a chemoattractant for Dictyostelium discoideum cells." J. Biosci. 32: 1281-1289.
	
Schaap, P. (2007). "Evolution of size and pattern in the social amoebas." Bioessays 29(7): 635-644.
	A fundamental goal of biology is to understand how novel phenotypes evolved through changes in existing genes. The Dictyostelia or social amoebas represent a simple form of multicellularity, where starving cells aggregate to build fruiting structures. This review summarizes efforts to provide a framework for investigating the genetic changes that generated novel morphologies in the Dictyostelia. The foundation is a recently constructed molecular phylogeny of the Dictyostelia, which was used to examine trends in the evolution of novel forms and in the divergence of genes that shape these forms. There is a major trend towards the formation of large unbranched fruiting bodies, which is correlated with the use of cyclic AMP (cAMP) as a secreted signal to coordinate cell aggregation. The role of cAMP in aggregation arose through co-option of a pathway that originally acted to coordinate fruiting body formation. The genotypic changes that caused this innovation and the role of dynamic cAMP signaling in defining fruiting body size and pattern throughout social amoeba evolution are discussed.

Satre, M., et al. (2007). "Mitochondrial carrier family: repertoire and peculiarities of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochimie 89: 1058-1069.
	
Sato, M. J., et al. (2007). "Input-output relationship in galvanotactic response of Dictyostelium cells." Biosystems 88: 261-272.
	
Sasaki, A. T., et al. (2007). "G protein-independent Ras/PI3K/F-actin circuit regulates basic cell motility." J. Cell Biol. 178: 185-191.
	
Santorelli, L. A. (2007). Mechanisms of cheating behavior in the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum. Houston, TX, Rice University: 112.
	
Sandrini, M. P., et al. (2007). "Dictyostelium discoideum salvages purine deoxyribonucleosides by highly specific bacterial-like deoxyribonucleoside kinases." J Mol Biol 369: 653-664.
	
Sacchi, L., et al. (2007). "Precedence temporal networks to represent temporal relationships in gene expression data." J Biomed. Inform. 40: 761-774.
	
Romeralo, M., et al. (2007). "A new concept for Dictyostelium sphaerocephalum based on morphology and phylogenetic analysis of nuclear ribosomal internal transcribed spacer region sequences." Can. J. Bot. 85: 104-110.
	
Romeralo, M., et al. (2007). "Molecular systematics of dictyostelids: 5.8S ribosomal DNA and internal transcribed spacer region analyses." Euk. Cell 6: 110-116.
	
Rohlfs, M., et al. (2007). "The Ste20-like kinase SvkA of Dictyostelium discoideum is essential for late stages of cytokinesis." J. Cell Sci. 120: 4345-4354.
	
Rivero, F. and F. Cvrkova (2007). Ch. 8: Origins and evolution of the actin cytoskeleton. Eukaryotic membranes and cytoskeleton: origins and evolution. G. Jekely, Landes Bioscience.
	
Repass, S. L., et al. (2007). "Dictyostelium Hip1r contributes to spore shape and requires epsin for phosphorylation and localization." J. Cell Sci. 120: 3977-3988.
	
Repass, S. L. (2007). Study of Hip1r: insights from a Dictyostelium discoideum clathrin adaptor. Austin, TX, The University of Texas at Austin: 126.
	
Reiter, L. T., et al. (2007). "Accentuate the negative: proteome comparisons using the negative proteome database." Fly 1(3): 164-171.
	The availability of complete genome sequence information for diverse organisms including model genetic organisms has ushered in a new era of protein sequence comparisons making it possible to search for commonalities among entire proteomes using the Basic Local Alignment Search Tool (BLAST). Although the identification and analysis of proteins shared by humans and model organisms has proven an invaluable tool to understanding gene function, the sets of proteins unique to a given model organism's proteome have remained largely unexplored. We have constructed a searchable database that allows biologists to identify proteins unique to a given proteome. The Negative Proteome Database (NPD) is populated with pair-wise protein sequence comparisons between each of the following proteomes: Homo sapiens, Mus musculus, Drosophila melanogaster, Caenorhabditis elegans, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Dictyostelium discoideum, Chlamydomonus reinhardti, Escherichia coli K12, Arabidopsis thaliana and Methanoscarcina acetivorans. Our analysis of negative proteome datasets using the NPD has thus far revealed 107 proteins in humans that may be involved in motile cilia function, 1628 potential pesticide target proteins in flies, 659 proteins shared by flies and humans that are not represented in the less neurologically complex worm proteome, and 180 nuclear encoded human disease associated proteins that are absent from the fly proteome. The NPD is the only online resource where users can quickly perform complex negative and positive comparisons of model organism proteomes. We anticipate that the NPD and the adaptable algorithm which can readily be used to duplicate this analysis on custom sets of proteomes will be an invaluable tool in the investigation of organism specific protein sets.

Razeto, A., et al. (2007). "The crucial step in ether phospholipid biosynthesis: structural basis of a noncanonical reaction associated with a peroxisomal disorder." Structure 15: 683-692.
	
Razeto, A., et al. (2007). "Identifying a recombinant alkyldihydroxyacetonephosphate synthase suited for crystallographic studies." Prot. Expr. Purif. 55: 343-351.
	
Rall, J. M. (2007). Identification and characterization of distinct classes of cAMP-pulse-induced genes in Dictyostelium discoideum development. Houston, TX, The University of Texas Graduate School of Biomedical Sciences at Houston: 113.
	
Rajawat, J., et al. (2007). "Effect of oxidative stress and involvement of poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) in Dictyostelium discoideum development." Febs J. 274: 5611-5618.
	
Pukatzki, S., et al. (2007). "Type VI secretion system translocates a phage tail spike-like protein into target cells where it cross-links actin." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 104: 15508-15513.
	
Prudden, J., et al. (2007). "SUMO-targeted ubiquitin ligases in genome stability." Embo j 26(18): 4089-4101.
	We identify the SUMO-Targeted Ubiquitin Ligase (STUbL) family of proteins and propose that STUbLs selectively ubiquitinate sumoylated proteins and proteins that contain SUMO-like domains (SLDs). STUbL recruitment to sumoylated/SLD proteins is mediated by tandem SUMO interaction motifs (SIMs) within the STUbLs N-terminus. STUbL-mediated ubiquitination maintains sumoylation pathway homeostasis by promoting target protein desumoylation and/or degradation. Thus, STUbLs establish a novel mode of communication between the sumoylation and ubiquitination pathways. STUbLs are evolutionarily conserved and include: Schizosaccharomyces pombe Slx8-Rfp (founding member), Homo sapiens RNF4, Dictyostelium discoideum MIP1 and Saccharomyces cerevisiae Slx5-Slx8. Cells lacking Slx8-Rfp accumulate sumoylated proteins, display genomic instability, and are hypersensitive to genotoxic stress. These phenotypes are suppressed by deletion of the major SUMO ligase Pli1, demonstrating the specificity of STUbLs as regulators of sumoylated proteins. Notably, human RNF4 expression restores SUMO pathway homeostasis in fission yeast lacking Slx8-Rfp, underscoring the evolutionary functional conservation of STUbLs. The DNA repair factor Rad60 and its human homolog NIP45, which contain SLDs, are candidate STUbL targets. Consistently, Rad60 and Slx8-Rfp mutants have similar DNA repair defects.

Prabhu, Y., et al. (2007). "GrlJ, a Dictyostelium GABAB-like receptor with roles in post-aggregation development." BMC Dev. Biol. 7:44: 14 pages.
	
Prabhu, Y., et al. (2007). "A GPCR involved in post aggregation events in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 312: 29-43.
	
Pockley, P. (2007). Slime mould model of mitochondrial disease earns Australasian Science prize. Australasian Sci. Nov/Dec: 6.
	
Pilcher, K. E., et al. (2007). "A general purpose method for extracting RNA from Dictyostelium cells." Nature Protoc 2: 1329-1332.
	
Pilcher, K. E., et al. (2007). "A reliable general purpose method for extracting genomic DNA from Dictyostelium cells." Nature Protoc 2: 1325-1328.
	
Pang, T. L., et al. (2007). "Dictyostelium gnt15 encodes a protein with similarity to large and plays an essential role in development." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 360: 83-89.
	
Otsuji, M., et al. (2007). "A mass conserved reaction-diffusion system captures properties of cell polarity." PLoS Comput. Biol. 3(6):e108: 1040-1054.
	
Onishi, H. and M. F. Morales (2007). "A closer look at energy transduction in muscle." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 104: 12714-12719.
	
Omata, W., et al. (2007). "Dictyostelium differentiation-inducing factor-1 induces glucose transporter 1 translocation and promotes glucose uptake in mammalian cells." Febs J. 274: 3392-3404.
	
Noguchi, T. Q., et al. (2007). "A novel system for expressing toxic actin mutants in Dictyostelium and purification and characterization of a dominant lethal yeast actin mutant." J. Biol. Chem. 282: 27721-27727.
	
Nizak, C., et al. (2007). "Exploitation of other social amoebae by Dictyostelium caveatum." PLoS One 2(2):e212: 9 pages.
	
Nikravan, N. N. (2007). The study of an autocrine signal transduction pathway that represses cell proliferation in Dictyostelium discoideum. United States -- Texas, Rice University.
	Many secreted factors are believed to inhibit cell proliferation in certain tissues such as tumors; however, the identity and action of most of these factors remains unknown. The recent identification of two autocrine secreted factors, AprA and CfaD, that inhibit cell proliferation in Dictyostelium discoideum , has enabled further study of how these factors regulate cell proliferation in a simple model system. Similar to AprA, the loss of CfaD in Dictyostelium strains increases the rate of cell proliferation in shaking cultures and leads to large fruiting bodies with large spore masses. The overexpression of CfaD causes tall, thin stalks with small spore masses. Analysis of different cell lines suggests that AprA is required for extracellular CfaD to inhibit cell proliferation. In addition, a screen for second-site suppressors of the aprA OE phenotype led to the identification of the Ddcln2 gene that encodes a tripeptidyl peptidase I. Examination of several DdTPPI properties, including an enzymatic activity assay, suggests the possible involvement of DdTPPI in both the AprA and CfaD signal transduction pathways that negatively regulate cell proliferation.

Narita, A., et al. (2007). "Molecular determination by electron microscopy of the dynein-microtubule complex structure." J. Mol. Biol. 372: 1320-1336.
	
Nagesha, D., et al. (2007). "In vitro imaging of embryonic stem cells using multiphoton luminescence of gold nanoparticles." Int J Nanomedicine 2(4): 813-819.
	Recent advances in nonlinear optical techniques and materials such as quantum wells, nanowires and noble-metal nanoparticles have led to advances in cellular imaging wherein various nanoparticles have been shown to improve both in vitro and in vivo visualization. In this paper, we demonstrate in vitro imaging using multi-photon photoluminescence of gold nanoparticles from two different cell types Dictyostelium discoideum and mouse embryonic stem cells. By observing nanoparticles we show that embryonic stem cells maintained their ability to proliferate for several passages while grown in the presence of gold nanoparticles. The advantages of multi-photon luminescence using gold nanoparticles have important implications for use in stem cell proliferation experiments and in vitro experiments to monitor differentiation.

Nagasaki, A. and T. Q. Uyeda (2007). "Screening of genes involved in cell migration in Dictyostelium." Exp. Cell Res. 314: 1136-1146.
	
Na, J., et al. (2007). "STATc is a key regulator of the transcriptional response to hyperosmotic shock." BMC Genomics 8:123: 14 pages.
	
Mylonakis, E., et al. (2007). "Exploiting amoeboid and non-vertebrate animal model systems to study the virulence of human pathogenic fungi." PLoS Pathog 3(7):e101: 0859-0865.
	
Muramoto, T., et al. (2007). "A stress response kinase, Krsa, controls cAMP relay during the early development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 305: 77-89.
	
Muller-Taubenberger, A. and K. I. Anderson (2007). "Recent advances using green and red fluorescent protein variants." Appl Microbiol Biotechnol 77(1): 1-12.
	Fluorescent proteins have proven to be excellent tools for live-cell imaging. In addition to green fluorescent protein (GFP) and its variants, recent progress has led to the development of monomeric red fluorescent proteins (mRFPs) that show improved properties with respect to maturation, brightness, and the monomeric state. This review considers green and red spectral variants, their paired use for live-cell imaging in vivo, in vitro, and in fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) studies, in addition to other recent "two-color" advances including photoswitching and bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC). It will be seen that green and red fluorescent proteins now exist with nearly ideal properties for dual-color microscopy and FRET.

Mondal, S., et al. (2007). "GxcDD, a putative RacGEF, is involved in Dictyostelium development." BMC Cell Biol. 8:23: 14 pages.
	
Mogami, T., et al. (2007). "Kinetic characterization of tail swing steps in the ATPase cycle of Dictyostelium cytoplasmic dynein." J. Biol. Chem. 282: 21639-21644.
	
Mizuno, N., et al. (2007). "Three-dimensional structure of cytoplasmic dynein bound to microtubules." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 104: 20832-20837.
	
Miyanaga, Y., et al. (2007). "Stochastic signal inputs for chemotactic response in Dictyostelium cells revealed by single molecule imaging techniques." Biosystems 88: 251-260.
	
Miranda-Saavedra, D. and G. J. Barton (2007). "Classification and functional annotation of eukaryotic protein kinases." Proteins 68: 893-914.
	
Mir, H. A., et al. (2007). "Signaling molecules involved in the transition of growth to development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Indian J. Exp. Biol. 45: 223-236.
	
Metcalf, T., et al. (2007). "Role of SP65 in assembly of the Dictyostelium discoideum spore coat." Euk. Cell 6: 1137-1149.
	
Mendoza, M. C., et al. (2007). "MEK1 and protein phosphatase 4 coordinate Dictyostelium development and chemotaxis." Mol. Cell. Biol. 27: 3817-3827.
	
Mellgren, R. L. and X. Huang (2007). "Fetuin A stabilizes m-calpain and facilitates plasma membrane repair." J Biol Chem 282(49): 35868-35877.
	Yeast two-hybrid experiments identified alpha(2)-Heremans-Schmid glycoprotein (human fetuin A) as a binding partner for calpain domain III (DIII). The tandem DIIIs of calpain-10 interacted under the most selective culture conditions, but DIIIs of m-calpain, calpain-3, and calpain-5 also interacted under less stringent selection. DIIIs of mu-calpain, calpain-6, and the tandem DIII-like domains of the Dictyostelium Cpl protein did not interact with alpha(2)-Heremans-Schmid glycoprotein in the yeast two-hybrid system. Bovine fetuin A stabilized proteolytic activity of purified m-calpain incubated in the presence of mm calcium chloride and prevented calcium-dependent m-calpain aggregation. Consistent with the yeast two-hybrid studies, fetuin A neither stabilized mu-calpain nor prevented its aggregation. Confocal immunofluorescence microscopy of scratch-damaged L6 myotubes demonstrated accumulation of m-calpain at the wound site in association with the membrane repair protein, dysferlin. m-Calpain also co-localized with fluorescein-labeled fetuin A at the wound site. The effect of fetuin A on calpain-mediated plasma membrane resealing was investigated using fibroblasts from Capns1(-/-) and Capns1(+/+) mouse embryos. Capns1 encodes the small noncatalytic subunit that is required for the proteolytic function of m- and mu-calpains. Thus, Capns1(-/-) fibroblasts do not express these calpains in active form. Fetuin A increased resealing of scrape-damaged wild-type fibroblasts but not Capns1(-/-) fibroblasts. These studies identify fetuin A as a potential extracellular regulator of m-calpain at nascent sites of plasma membrane wounding.

Meissner, J. (2007). Effects of myristoylation on the structure and stability of hisactophilin. Canada, University of Waterloo (Canada).
	Hisactophilin is a histidine rich, actin binding protein from Dictyostelium discoideum . The structure of Hisactophilin, an all-beta protein, is typical of the beta-trefoil superfamily of proteins. In addition, hisactophilin is myristoylated, which is a relatively common co-translational modification involving the covalent attachment of a myristic acid group to the N-terminal glycine of a protein. For most modified proteins, a myristoyl group is involved in reversible protein-protein and protein-membrane interactions via a myristoyl switch. The majority of studies on the molecular basis of myristoyl switches have focused on characterizing calcium-myristoyl switches, whereas research has suggested that hisactophilin binds reversibly to membranes by means of a pH dependent myristoyl switch. A number of in vivo studies of the modified protein have been completed to study the function of hisactophilin; however, the structure and stability of the protein have only been characterized using the recombinant non-myristoylated protein. In contrast, this study focuses on the effects of myristoylation on hisactophilin structure and stability. Myristoylated hisactophilin has been prepared by a dual plasmid expression system in E. coli . Optimization of the efficiency of myristoylation was completed for the preparation and purification of myristoylated hisactophilin. Characterization of the structural changes caused by myristoylation were undertaken using multidimensional homo- and heteronuclear NMR experiments. Circular dichroism (CD) was used to obtain low resolution structural data and characterize protein stability as a function of pH using chemical denaturation. The molecular consequences of myristoylation on protein stability and structure, as well as the molecular basis for pH dependent myristoyl switch will be discussed.

Meima, M. E., et al. (2007). "Vectors for expression of proteins with single or combinatorial fluorescent protein and tandem affinity purification tags in Dictyostelium." Prot. Expr. Purif. 53: 283-288.
	
Medalia, O., et al. (2007). "Organization of actin networks in intact filopodia." Curr. Biol. 17: 79-84.
	
McConnell, R., et al. (2007). "An unusually low microsatellite mutation rate in Dictyostelium discoideum, an organism with unusually abundant microsatellites." Genetics 177: 1499-1507.
	
Malnasi-Csizmadia, A., et al. (2007). "Selective perturbation of the myosin recovery stroke by point mutations at the base of the lever arm affects ATP hydrolysis and phosphate release." J. Biol. Chem. 282: 17658-17664.
	
Malchow, D., et al. (2007). "A fast Ca(2+)-induced Ca(2+)-release mechanism in Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Calcium 43: 521-530.
	
Mahadeo, D. C., et al. (2007). "A chemoattractant-mediated Gi-coupled pathway activates adenylyl cyclase in human neutrophils." Mol. Biol. Cell 18: 512-522.
	
Loovers, H. M., et al. (2007). "Regulation of phagocytosis in dictyostelium by the inositol 5-phosphatase ocrl homolog dd5p4." Traffic 8: 618-628.
	
Lombardi, M. L., et al. (2007). "Traction force microscopy in Dictyostelium reveals distinct roles for myosin II motor and actin-crosslinking activity in polarized cell movement." J. Cell Sci. 120: 1624-1634.
	
Lobanov, A. V., et al. (2007). "Evolutionary dynamics of eukaryotic selenoproteomes: large selenoproteomes may associate with aquatic life and small with terrestrial life." Genome Biol. 8: R198.
	
Lippert, U., et al. (2007). "Conserved structural and functional properties of D-domain containing redox-active and -inactive protein disulfide isomerase-related protein chaperones." J. Biol. Chem. 282: 11213-11220.
	
Lieto-Trivedi, A., et al. (2007). "Myosin surface loop 4 modulates inhibition of actomyosin 1B ATPase activity by tropomyosin." Biochemistry 46: 2779-2786.
	
Li, H. (2007). From poles to equator: functional analysis of DdAurora during mitosis and cytokinesis in Dictyostelium discoideum. Austin, TX, The University of Texas at Austin: 113.
	
Levi, S. K. and B. S. Glick (2007). "Grasping unconventional secretion." Cell 130: 407-409.
	
Leslie, M. (2007). A slimy start for immunity. Science. 317: 584.
	
Lee, J. (2007). "The use of gelatin substrates for traction force microscopy in rapidly moving cells." Methods Cell Biol. 83: 297-312.
	
Laporte, C., et al. (2007). "A necrotic cell death model in a protist." Cell Death Differ. 14: 266-274.
	
Langridge, P. D. and R. R. Kay (2007). "Mutants in the Dictyostelium Arp2/3 complex and chemoattractant-induced actin polymerization." Exp. Cell Res. 313: 2563-2574.
	
Lam, D., et al. (2007). "Autophagic or necrotic cell death in the absence of caspase and bcl-2 family members." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 363: 536-541.
	
Kypri, E., et al. (2007). "The BEACH protein lvsB is localized on lysosomes and postlysosomes and limits their fusion with early endosomes." Traffic 8: 774-783.
	
Kypri, E. (2007). Study of LvsB in Dictyostelium discoideum provides insights into the Chediak-Higashi syndrome. United States -- Texas, The University of Texas at Austin.
	The Chediak-Higashi Syndrome is a disorder affecting lysosome biogenesis. At the cellular level, the Chediak-Higashi syndrome is characterized by the presence of grossly enlarged lysosomes in every tissue. Impaired lysosomal function in CHS patients results in many physiological problems, including immunodeficiency, albinism and neurological problems. The Chediak-Higashi syndrome is caused by the loss of a BEACH protein of unknown function named Lyst. In this work, I have studied the function of the Dictyostelium LvsB protein, the ortholog of mammalian Lyst and a protein that is also important for lysosomal function. Using a knock-in approach we tagged LvsB with GFP and expressed it from its single chromosomal locus. GFP-LvsB was observed on endocytic and phagocytic compartments. Specific analysis of the endocytic compartments labeled by LvsB showed that they represented late lysosomes and postlysosomes. The analysis of LvsB-null cells revealed that loss of LvsB resulted in enlarged postlysosomes, in the abnormal localization of proton pumps on postlysosomes and their abnormal acidification. This work demonstrated that the abnormal postlysosomes in LvsB-null cells were produced by the inappropriate fusion of lysosomes with postlysosomal compartments. Furthermore, this work provided the first evidence that LvsB is a functional antagonist of the GTPase Rab14 in vesicle fusion events. In particular, we demonstrated that reduction of Rab14 activity suppressed the LvsB-null phenotype by reducing the enlarged post-lysosomes and the enhanced rate of heterotypic fusion. In contrast, expression of an active form of Rab14 enhanced the LvsB-null phenotype by causing an even more severe enlargement of endosome size. The results provided by this work support the model that LvsB and Lyst proteins act as negative regulators of fusion by limiting the heterotypic fusion of early with late compartments and antagonize Rab GTPases in membrane fusion. The LvsB localization studies and the functional assessment of the LvsB-null phenotype helped make unique contributions to the understanding of the molecular function of Lyst proteins.

Kuzdzal-Fick, J. J., et al. (2007). "Exploiting new terrain: an advantage to sociality in the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Behavioral Ecol. 18(2): 433-437.
	Understanding the ecological benefits of social actions is central to explaining the evolution of social behavior. The social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum has been well studied and is a model for social evolution and development, but surprisingly little is known about its ecology. When starving, thousands of the normally solitary amoebae aggregate to form a differentiated multicellular organism known as a slug. The slug migrates toward the soil surface where it metamorphoses into a fruiting body of hardy spores held up by a dead stalk comprising about one-fifth of the cells. Multicellularity in D. discoideum is thought to have evolved to lift the spores above the hazards of the soil where spores can be picked up for long-distance dispersal. Here, we show that multicellularity has another advantage: local dispersal to new food sources. We find that cells shed by D. discoideum slugs during migration consume and remove bacteria in the path of the slug, although slugs themselves do not breakup. We also show that slugs are adept at local dispersal by comparing migration of slugs with migration of individual cells of the mutant, CAP2, which cannot aggregate and so rely only on cellular movement. In particular, the solitary cells of the aggregation mutant are unable to cross a soil barrier, easily crossed by slugs. We propose that the exploitation of local food patches is an important selective benefit favoring multicellular cooperation in D. discoideum. 


Kuwayama, H. and A. Nagasaki (2007). "Desalted deep sea water increases transformation and homologous recombination efficiencies in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Mol. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 14: 157-162.
	
Kurz, C. L. and J. J. Ewbank (2007). "Infection in a dish: high-throughput analyses of bacterial pathogenesis." Curr. Opin. Microbiol 10: 10-16.
	
Kubohara, Y., et al. (2007). "Pharmacological evidence that stalk cell differentiation involves increases in the intracellular Ca(2+) and H(+) concentrations in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Growth Differ. 49: 253-264.
	
Kubohara, Y. (2007). "[Pharmacological activities of the Dictyostelium differentiation-inducing factor-1 (DIF-1): cellular slime molds are fascinating lower eukaryotes!]." Seikagaku 79: 148-151.
	
Krishnan, J. (2007). Modelling gradient perception and polarization in chemotaxing Dictyostelium cells. BMC Systems Biol.
	Poster presentation
Chemotaxis, the directed migration of cells/organisms in response to external chemical gradients, is of great importance in various biological settings such as wound healing, tumour metastasis and development.

This talk deals with modelling efforts aimed at understanding two key sub-processes of eukaryotic chemotaxis: gradient perception, the process by which information about an external concentration field is converted into an internal signal which guides cell motion, and polarization, the persistent localization of various signalling molecules to opposite ends of the cell ("front" and "back"), along with any attendant morphological change.

We first briefly examine models for gradient perception in Dictyostelium. This involves the regulation of phosphoinositide lipids such as PI(3,4,5)P3/PI(3,4)P2, by the receptor, via the enzymes PI3K and PTEN, in a manner consistent with adaptation to homogeneous stimuli. We then discuss a modelling framework developed to link gradient perception with cell polarization. While cell polarization occurs as a result of exposure to an external chemical gradient, there are intrinsic mechanisms which can also lead to cell polarization, which do not require an externally imposed chemical gradient.

Working within our modelling framework, we examine the interaction between external gradient-induced and intrinsic polarization. Model analysis leads to various testable predictions regarding their interaction and is a first step towards elucidating the complexities of the polarization process in this system. This is work done in collaboration with Pablo Iglesias and Peter Devreotes, Johns Hopkins University

Kortholt, A., et al. (2007). "Phospholipase C regulation of phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate-mediated chemotaxis." Mol. Biol. Cell 18: 4772-4779.
	
Koppole, S., et al. (2007). "The structural coupling between atpase activation and recovery stroke in the myosin II motor." Structure 15: 825-837.
	
Kintses, B., et al. (2007). "Reversible movement of switch 1 loop of myosin determines actin interaction." EMBO J. 26: 265-274.
	
Kinseth, M. A., et al. (2007). "The golgi-associated protein Grasp is required for unconventional protein secretion during development." Cell 130: 524-534.
	
Kinseth, M. A. (2007). The physiological role of the GRASP proteins in unconventional secretion and mitotic golgi fragmentation. San Diego, CA, University of California, San Diego: 153.
	
Kim, J., et al. (2007). "Stochastic noise and synchronisation during Dictyostelium aggregation make cAMP oscillations robust." PLoS Comput. Biol. 3(11):e218: 2190-2198.
	
Kim, J., et al. (2007). Glutathione regulates the transition from growth to development in Dictyostelium discoideum. Febs j.
	Glutathione is a ubiquitous tripeptide, found in most plants,
microorganisms, and all mammalian tissues and most prevalent
reducing thiol-containing compound in eukaryotic cells. Glutathione
serves as cellular thiol redox buffer to maintain a thiol/disulfide
redox potential, and also known to participate in many
cellular processes. Disruption of GCS encoding c-glutamylcysteine
resulted in glutathione auxotrophy and developmental defect in
Dictyostelium discoideum. And GCS-null cells showed different
developmental progress, depending on the level of GSH. To understand
defective development, we investigated the development in
suspension. GCS-null cells depleted GSH did not aggregate and
were still single cells in suspension with addition of cAMP. Interestingly,
the addition of 1mM GSH induced them to aggregate.
However, the defect in aggregation of them was not rescued by
dithiothreitol, N-acetylcysteine and ascorbic acid. GCS-null cells
fail to decrease the expression of the growth-stage gene cprD, and
do not induce the expression of cAR1 (cAMP receptor), acaA (adenylyl
cyclase A) and lagC (aggregation marker) that required for
the earliest stages of development. Dictyostelium cells that enter
the development stage use G protein-coupled receptor signaling to
direct chemotactic migration to a source of cAMP. We overexpressed
cAR1, the most important receptor for cAMP signal cascade,
in GCS-null cells. cAR1 overexpressing GCS-null cells still
fail to aggregate in suspension. These results suggest GCS-null cells
are defective in production of the extracellular cAMP that serves
as the extracellular chemoattractant and in cAMP signal cascade
in D. discoideum development.

Kim, H. L., et al. (2007). "Tetrahydropteridine deficiency impairs mitochondrial function in Dictyostelium discoideum AX2." FEBS Lett. 581: 5430-5434.
	
Kikuchi, H., et al. (2007). "Dihydrodictyopyrones A and C: new members of dictyopyrone family isolated from Dictyostelium cellular slime molds." Tetrahedron Lett. 48(33): 5905-5909.
	We have explored the diversity of secondary metabolites produced by cellular slime molds to evaluate if they are valuable resources for biologically potential substances. From the methanol extract of fruiting bodies of Dicyostelium firmibasis, we obtained new [alpha]-pyranoids, dihydrodictyopyrones A (1) and C (2). Their structures including absolute configurations were determined by spectral means and asymmetric total synthesis. Compounds 1 and 2 are new members of the dictyopyrone family, which are characteristic secondary metabolites of various species of Dictyostelium cellular slime molds.

Kikuchi, H. (2007). "[novel biologically active compounds isolated from unexploited organisms, cellular sime molds]." Yakugaku Zasshi 127: 1431-1439.
	
Khaire, N., et al. (2007). "Filamin-regulated F-actin assembly is essential for morphogenesis and controls phototaxis in Dictyostelium." J. Biol. Chem. 282: 1948-1955.
	
Keizer-Gunnink, I., et al. (2007). "Chemoattractants and chemorepellents act by inducing opposite polarity in phospholipase C and PI3-kinase signaling." J. Cell Biol. 177: 579-585.
	
Katoh, M., et al. (2007). "Developmental commitment in Dictyostelium discoideum." Euk. Cell 6: 2038-2045.
	
Kaller, M., et al. (2007). "Localization and organization of protein factors involved in chromosome inheritance in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biol. Chem. 388: 355-365.
	
Kalavrizioti, D., et al. (2007). "DRpp20 and DRpp40: two protein subunits involved in Dictyostelium discoideum ribonuclease P holoenzyme assembly." Gene 400: 52-59.
	
Kae, H., et al. (2007). "Cyclic AMP signalling in Dictyostelium: G-proteins activate separate ras pathways using specific RasGefs." EMBO Rep. 8: 477-482.
	
Kae, H. (2007). Elucidating the Ras activation pathways in response to cyclic AMP in the aggregation of Dictyostelium discoideum. Vancouver, BC, Canada, The University of British Columbia: 124.
	
Kabacoff, C., et al. (2007). "Dynacortin facilitates polarization of chemotaxing cells." BMC Biology 5:53: 53.
	Background: Cell shape changes during cytokinesis and chemotaxis require regulation of the actin cytoskeletal network. Dynacortin, an actin cross-linking protein, localizes to the cell cortex and contributes to cortical resistance, thereby helping to define the cell shape changes of cytokinesis. Dynacortin also becomes highly enriched in cortical protrusions, which are sites of new actin assembly. Results: We studied the effect of dynacortin on cell motility during chemotaxis and on actin dynamics in vivo and in vitro. Dynacortin enriches with the actin, particularly at the leading edge of chemotaxing cells. Cells devoid of dynacortin do not become as polarized as wild-type control cells but move with similar velocities as wild-type cells. In particular, they send out multiple pseudopods that radiate at a broader distribution of angles relative to the chemoattractant gradient. Wild-type cells typically only send out one pseudopod at a time that does not diverge much from 0 degrees on average relative to the gradient. Though dynacortin-deficient cells show normal bulk ( whole-cell) actin assembly upon chemoattractant stimulation, dynacortin can promote actin assembly in vitro. By fluorescence spectroscopy, co-sedimentation and transmission electron microscopy, dynacortin acts as an actin scaffolder in which it assembles actin monomers into polymers with a stoichiometry of I Dyn2:I actin under salt conditions that disfavor polymer assembly. Conclusion: Dynacortin contributes to cell polarization during chemotaxis. By cross-linking and possibly stabilizing actin polymers, dynacortin also contributes to cortical viscoelasticity, which may be critical for establishing cell polarity. Though not essential for directional sensing or motility, dynacortin is required to establish cell polarity, the third core feature of chemotaxis.

Jules, M. and C. Buchrieser (2007). "Legionella pneumophila adaptation to intracellular life and the host response: clues from genomics and transcriptomics." FEBS Lett. 581: 2829-2838.
	
Joyce, B. R., et al. (2007). "Tf2 binds to the regulatory promoter of alkaline phosphatase in Dicytostelium." Biochim Biophys Acta 1769: 668-677.
	
Jockusch, B. M., et al. (2007). "The profile of profilins." Rev. Physiol. Biochem. Pharmacol. 159: 131-149.
	
Jeon, T. J., et al. (2007). "Rap1 controls cell adhesion and cell motility through the regulation of myosin II." J. Cell Biol. 176: 1021-1033.
	
Jeon, T. J., et al. (2007). "Regulation of Rap1 activity by RapGap1 controls cell adhesion at the front of chemotaxing cells." J. Cell Biol. 179: 833-843.
	
Jahn, W. (2007). "The association of actin and myosin in the presence of gamma-amido-ATP proceeds mainly via a complex with myosin in the closed conformation." Biochemistry 46: 9654-9664.
	
Iwai, S. and S. Chaen (2007). "Mutation in the sh1 helix reduces the activation energy of the atp-induced conformational transition of myosin." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 357: 325-329.
	
Itoh, G. and S. Yumura (2007). "A novel mitosis-specific dynamic actin structure in Dictyostelium cells." J. Cell Sci. 120: 4302-4309.
	
Insall, R. and N. Andrew (2007). "Chemotaxis in Dictyostelium: how to walk straight using parallel pathways." Curr. Opin. Microbiol. 10: 578-581.
	
Imamula, K., et al. (2007). "The coordination of cyclic microtubule association/dissociation and tail swing of cytoplasmic dynein." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 104: 16134-16139.
	
Hoeller, O. and R. R. Kay (2007). "Chemotaxis in the absence of PIP3 gradients." Curr. Biol. 17: 813-817.
	
Hinas, A. and F. Soderbom (2007). "Treasure hunt in an amoeba: non-coding RNAs in Dictyostelium discoideum." Curr. Genet. 51: 141-159.
	
Hinas, A., et al. (2007). "The small RNA repertoire of Dictyostelium discoideum and its regulation by components of the RNAi pathway." Nucl. Acids Res. 35: 6714-6726.
	
Hilgardt, C., et al. (2007). "Reconstruction of cellular variability from spatiotemporal patterns of Dictyostelium discoideum." Nonlinear Biomed. Phys. 1:10: 13 pages.
	
Hilbi, H., et al. (2007). "Environmental predators as models for bacterial pathogenesis." Environ Microbiol 9(3): 563-575.
	Environmental bacteria are constantly threatened by bacterivorous predators such as free-living protozoa and nematodes. In the course of their coevolution with environmental predators, some bacteria developed sophisticated defence mechanisms, including the secretion of toxins, or the capacity to avoid lysosomal killing and to replicate intracellularly within protozoa. To analyse the interactions with bacterial pathogens on a molecular, cellular or organismic level, protozoa and other non-mammalian hosts are increasingly used. These include amoebae, as well as genetically tractable hosts, such as the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum, the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans and the fruit fly Drosophila melanogaster. Using these hosts, the virulence mechanisms of opportunistic pathogenic bacteria such as Legionella, Mycobacterium, Pseudomonas or Vibrio were found to be not only relevant for the interactions of the bacteria with protozoa, nematodes and insect phagocytes, but also with mammalian hosts including humans. Thus, non-mammalian model hosts provide valuable insight into the pathogenesis of environmental bacteria.

Haupt, B. J., et al. (2007). "Asymmetric elastic properties of Dictyostelium discoideum in relation to chemotaxis." Langmuir 23: 9352-9357.
	
Hagiwara, H. (2007). "Preliminary study of sexual segregation in dictyostelids." Bull. Natl. Sci. Mus. Tokyo, Ser. B 33: 1-8.
	
Hagedorn, M. and T. Soldati (2007). "Flotillin and RacH modulate the intracellular immunity of Dictyostelium to Mycobacterium marinum infection." Cell. Microbiol. 9: 2716-2733.
	
Hadwiger, J. A. (2007). "Developmental morphology and chemotactic responses are dependent on Galpha subunit specificity in Dictyostelium." Dev. Biol. 312: 1-12.
	
Hachibuko, Y., et al. (2007). "Enzymatic activity and motility of recombinant Arabidopsis myosin XI, MYA1." Plant Cell Physiol. 48: 886-891.
	
Goldbeter, A. (2007). Biological rhythms as temporal dissipative structures. Adv Chem Phys. S. A. Rice, Wiley Interscience. 135: 253-295.
	
Gokhale, R. S., et al. (2007). "Versatility of polyketide synthases in generating metabolic diversity." Curr. Opin. Struct. Biol. 17: 736-743.
	
Gilbert, O. M., et al. (2007). "High relatedness maintains multicellular cooperation in a social amoeba by controlling cheater mutants." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 104: 8913-8917.
	
Gerisch, G. and I. Weber (2007). "Toward the structure of dynamic membrane-anchored actin networks: an approach using cryo-electron tomography." Cell Adh Migr 1(3): 145-148.
	In the cortex of a motile cell, membrane-anchored actin filaments assemble into structures of varying shape and function. Filopodia are distinguished by a core of bundled actin filaments within finger-like extensions of the membrane. In a recent paper by Medalia et al(1) cryo-electron tomography has been used to reconstruct, from filopodia of Dictyostelium cells, the 3-dimensional organization of actin filaments in connection with the plasma membrane. A special arrangement of short filaments converging toward the filopod's tip has been called a "terminal cone". In this region force is applied for protrusion of the membrane. Here we discuss actin organization in the filopodia of Dictyostelium in the light of current views on forces that are generated by polymerizing actin filaments, and on the resistance of membranes against deformation that counteracts these forces.

Gaudet, P., et al. (2007). "Transformation of Dictyostelium discoideum with plasmid DNA." Nature Protoc 2: 1317-1324.
	
Gao, T., et al. (2007). "A cell number-counting factor regulates levels of a novel protein, sslA, as part of a group size regulation mechanism in Dictyostelium." Euk. Cell 6: 1538-1551.
	
Galdeen, S. A., et al. (2007). "Talin influences the dynamics of the myosin VII-membrane interaction." Mol. Biol. Cell 18: 4074-4084.
	
Galdeen, S. A. (2007). Levels and dynamics of Dictyostelium myosin 7 and talinA are linked. Twin Cities, MN, University of Minnesota: 84.
	
Gachon, C. M., et al. (2007). "The Culture Collection of Algae and Protozoa (CCAP): a biological resource for protistan genomics." Gene 406(1-2): 51-57.
	CCAP, the largest European protistan culture collection, is based at the Scottish Association for Marine Science near Oban, Scotland (http://www.ccap.ac.uk). The Collection comprises more than 2700 strains in the public domain, of which 1050 are marine algae, 1300 freshwater algae, and 350 protozoa. The primary mission of CCAP is to maintain and distribute defined cultures and their associated information to its customers. It also has a support and advisory function on all aspects of protistan science. In addition, it is involved in the training of students and researchers in algal identification and culture techniques. In light of the increasing number of fully sequenced protists, the CCAP is striving to provide targeted services and support to workers involved in all aspects of genomic research. At present, the Collection holds several hundred strains of genomic model taxa including: Acanthamoeba, Cafeteria, Cercomonas, Chlamydomonas, Chlorella, Cyanophora, Dictyostelium, Dunaliella, Ectocarpus, Emiliania, Euglena, Micromonas, Naegleria, Nephroselmis, Paramecium, Pavlova, Phaeodactylum, Porphyra, Pseudendoclonium, Pylaiella, Rhodomonas, Scenedesmus, Staurastrum, Tetrahymena, Thalassiosira, Volvox and Zygnema. These strains provide a defined representation of natural variation within model organisms, an increasingly useful resource for post-genomics approaches. Our aim over the next 2-5 years is to add value to the Collection by increasing the number of genome model species, and by offering an integrated, up-to-date, easy-to-use resource that would provide curated information on our strain holdings. In collaboration with other major Biological Resource Centres worldwide, we intend to build a hub providing access to both protistan cultures and their associated bioinformatics data.

Froquet, R., et al. (2007). "Alternative host model to evaluate Aeromonas virulence." Appl. Envir. Microbiol. 73: 5657-5659.
	
Fountain, S. J., et al. (2007). "An intracellular P2x receptor required for osmoregulation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Nature 448: 200-203.
	
Fey, P., et al. (2007). "Protocols for growth and development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Nature Protoc 2: 1307-1316.
	
Feit, I. N., et al. (2007). "A model for cell type localization in the migrating slug of Dictyostelium discoideum based on differential chemotactic sensitivity to cAMP and differential sensitivity to suppression of chemotaxis by ammonia." J. Biosci. 32: 329-338.
	
Fang, J., et al. (2007). "A vesicle surface tyrosine kinase regulates phagosome maturation." J. Cell Biol. 178: 411-423.
	
Erban, R. and H. G. Othmer (2007). "Taxis equations for amoeboid cells." J. Math. Biol. 54: 847-885.
	
Ebisawa, M., et al. (2007). "Synthesis of dictyomedins using phosphazene base catalyzed diaryl ether formation." Tetrahedron Lett. 48(50): 8918-8921.
	Dictyomedins isolated from dictyostelium cellular slime molds were synthesized by using diaryl ether derivatives as key intermediates for the cyclization to dibenzofuran followed by palladium catalyzed intramolecular biaryl formation.

Dutta, S., et al. (2007). "Molecular and functional characterization of EhPAK3, a p21 activated kinase from Entamoeba histolytica." Gene 402(1-2): 57-67.
	p21-activated kinases (PAKs) are a family of serine/threonine kinases whose activity is regulated by the binding of the small Rho family GTPases as well as by RhoGTPase independent mechanisms. PAKs have wide-ranging functions which include cytoskeletal organisation, cell motility, cell proliferation and survival. We have identified a PAK from Entamoeba histolytica - EhPAK3 that is distributed in the cytoplasm of unstimulated cells and localizes to the caps after induction of capping with Concanavalin A. EhPAK3 contains a GTPase interacting (CRIB) domain, an N-terminal pleckstrin homology (PH) domain and a C-terminal kinase domain. Among the PAKs of E. histolytica studied so far, EhPAK3 bears the maximum similarity to Dictyostelium discoideum PAKC (DdPAKC). Phylogenetic analysis showed that EhPAK3 was closely related to DdPAKC and forms a group with DdPAKA, Dd Myosin I heavy chain kinase (DdMIHCK), and a PAK reported earlier from E. histolytica EhPAK2. Recombinant full-length EhPAK3 undergoes auotophosphorylation and phosphorylates histone H1 in vitro in the absence of any small GTPase. This is the first comprehensive characterization of a PAK protein from E. histolytica, which has constitutive activity and has demonstrated a strong involvement in receptor capping.

Du, F. (2007). A RabGAP protein and BEACH family proteins regulate contractile vacuole formation and activity and chemotaxis in Dictyostelium. San Diego, CA, Univeristy of California, San Diego: 114.
	
Depledge, D. P., et al. (2007). "Repseq--a database of amino acid repeats present in lower eukaryotic pathogens." BMC Bioinformatics 8:122: 10 pages.
	
Del Alamo, J. C., et al. (2007). "Spatio-temporal analysis of eukaryotic cell motility by improved force cytometry." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 104: 13343-13348.
	
Damer, C. K., et al. (2007). "Copine a is required for cytokinesis, contractile vacuole function, and development in Dictyostelium." Euk. Cell 6: 430-442.
	
Da Lage, J. L., et al. (2007). "Where do animal alpha-amylases come from? An interkingdom trip." FEBS Lett. 581: 3927-3935.
	
Czerwinski, E. (2007). Two proteins containing tandem DIII domains, calpain 10 and Dictyostelium Cpl, are involved in cytoskeletal regulation. Toledo, OH, Medical College of Ohio: 154.
	
Chung, T., et al. (2007). "Protein interactions involved in tRNA gene-specific integration of Dictyostelium discoideum non-long terminal repeat retrotransposon TRE5-a." Mol. Cell. Biol. 27: 8492-8501.
	
Chung, T. (2007). Interaktionsanalysen zur spezifischen Integration des Retrotransposons TRE5-A.1 in Dictyostelium discoideum. Frankfurt am Main, Germany, Johann Wolfgang Goethe Universitat: 129.
	
Chin, G. and J. Yeston (2007). Editor's choice: Self-puncturing pathogens. Science. 318: 171.
	
Chen, Y., et al. (2007). "Isoprenylcysteine carboxy methylation is essential for development in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Biol. Cell 18: 4106-4118.
	
Chen, Y. (2007). PldB, a putative phospholipase D homologue, mediates quorum sensing in Dictyostelium discoideum development. New York, NY, City University of New York: 90.
	
Chen, Q., et al. (2007). "The localization of inner centromeric protein (INCENP) at the cleavage furrow is dependent on Kif12 and involves interactions of the N terminus of INCENP with the actin cytoskeleton." Mol. Biol. Cell 18: 3366-3374.
	
Chen, L., et al. (2007). "Pla2 and pi3k/pten pathways act in parallel to mediate chemotaxis." Dev. Cell 12: 603-614.
	
Chen, J., et al. (2007). "Host cell-dependent secretion and translocation of the lepA and lepB effectors of Legionella pneumophila." Cell. Microbiol. 9: 1660-1671.
	
Chen, J., et al. (2007). "Efficient expression and primary purification of 6-His tagged human Fas ligand in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biotechnol. Lett. 29: 859-863.
	
Chen, G., et al. (2007). "Immune-like phagocyte activity in the social amoeba." Science 317: 678-681.
	
Charette, S. J. and P. Cosson (2007). "A LYST/beige homolog is involved in biogenesis of Dictyostelium secretory lysosomes." J. Cell Sci. 120: 2338-2343.
	
Castoe, T. A., et al. (2007). "A novel group of type I polyketide synthases (PKS) in animals and the complex phylogenomics of PKSs." Gene 392: 47-58.
	
Caracino, D., et al. (2007). "The N-terminus of Dictyostelium SCAR interacts with abi and hspc300 and is essential for proper regulation and function." Mol. Biol. Cell 18: 1609-1620.
	
Bretscher, M. S. and M. Clotworthy (2007). "Using single loxP sites to enhance homologous recombination: ts mutants in Sec1 of Dictyostelium discoideum." PLoS One 2(8):e724: 4 pages.
	
Bokko, P. B., et al. (2007). "Diverse cytopathologies in mitochondrial disease are caused by amp-activated protein kinase signaling." Mol. Biol. Cell 18: 1874-1886.
	
Boeckeler, K. and R. S. B. Williams (2007). Dictyostelium as a biomedical model. Encyclopedia of Life Sciences, Wiley Interscience (John Wiley and Sons).
	The social amoeba, Dictyostelium discoideum, has been commonly used to investigate cell motility, signal transduction, cell type differentiation and development. With the recent completion of the genome and the increasing number of experimental tools available for the organism, it has now become an attractive model for examining some well-defined biomedical questions.

Bloomfield, G. and R. R. Kay (2007). "My 2,000 best films: parallel phenotyping of Dictyostelium development." Genome Biol. 8: 220.221-220.223.
	
Bigg, A. (2007). Structural and functional characterization of MlcD, a Dictyostelium discoideum myosin I light chain. Kingston, Ont., Canada, Queen's University: 96.
	
Beta, C., et al. (2007). "Flow photolysis for spatiotemporal stimulation of single cells." Anal. Chem. 79: 3940-3944.
	
Behar, M., et al. (2007). "Mathematical and computational analysis of adaptation via feedback inhibition in signal transduction pathways." Biophys. J. 93: 806-821.
	
Beck, M., et al. (2007). "Snapshots of nuclear pore complexes in action captured by cryo-electron tomography." Nature 449: 611-615.
	
Barth, C., et al. (2007). "Mitochondrial biology and disease in Dictyostelium." Int. Rev. Cytol. 263: 207-252.
	
Banerjee, S., et al. (2007). "The evolution of N-glycan-dependent endoplasmic reticulum quality control factors for glycoprotein folding and degradation." Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 104(28): 11676-11681.
	Asn-linked glycans (N-glycans) play important roles in the quality control (QC) of glycoprotein folding in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) lumen and in ER-associated degradation (ERAD) of proteins by cytosolic proteasomes. A UDP-Glc:glycoprotein glucosyltransferase glucosylates N-glycans of misfolded proteins, which are then bound and refolded by calreticulin and/or calnexin in association with a protein disulfide isomerase. Alternatively, an alpha-1,2-mannosidase (Mns1) and mannosidase-like proteins (ER degradation-enhancing alpha-mannosidase-like proteins 1, 2, and 3) are part of a process that results in the dislocation of misfolded glycoproteins into the cytosol, where proteins are degraded in the proteasome. Recently we found that numerous protists and fungi contain 0-11 sugars in their N-glycan precursors versus 14 sugars in those of animals, plants, fungi, and Dictyostelium. Our goal here was to determine what effect N-glycan precursor diversity has on N-glycan-dependent QC systems of glycoprotein folding and ERAD. N-glycan-dependent QC of folding (UDP-Glc:glycoprotein glucosyltransferase, calreticulin, and/or calnexin) was present and active in some but not all protists containing at least five mannose residues in their N-glycans and was absent in protists lacking Man. In contrast, N-glycan-dependent ERAD appeared to be absent from the majority of protists. However, Trypanosoma and Trichomonas genomes predicted ER degradation-enhancing alpha-mannosidase-like protein and Mns1 orthologs, respectively, each of which had alpha-mannosidase activity in vitro. Phylogenetic analyses suggested that the diversity of N-glycan-dependent QC of glycoprotein folding (and possibly that of ERAD) was best explained by secondary loss. We conclude that N-glycan precursor length has profound effects on N-glycan-dependent QC of glycoprotein folding and ERAD.

Bakthavatsalam, D., et al. (2007). "A G protein-coupled receptor with a lipid kinase domain is involved in cell-density sensing." Curr. Biol. 17: 892-897.
	
Bader, S., et al. (2007). "Seven Dictyostelium discoideum phosphodiesterases degrade three pools of cAMP and cGMP." Biochem. J. 402: 153-161.
	
Arasada, R., et al. (2007). "Profilin isoforms in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1773: 631-641.
	
Annesley, S. J., et al. (2007). "Filamin repeat segments required for photosensory signalling in Dictyostelium discoideum." BMC Cell Biol. 8:48: 13 pages.
	
Andrioli, L. P., et al. (2007). "Staurosporine induces tyrosine phosphorylation in Dictyostelium discoideum proteins." Cell Biochem. Funct. 25: 555-561.
	
Andrews, B. W. and P. A. Iglesias (2007). "An information-theoretic characterization of the optimal gradient sensing response of cells." PLoS Comput. Biol. 3(8):e153: 1489-1497.
	
Andrew, N. and R. H. Insall (2007). "Chemotaxis in shallow gradients is mediated independently of PtdIns 3-kinase by biased choices between random protrusions." Nature Cell Biol. 9: 193-200.
	
Amagai, A., et al. (2007). "Ethylene induces zygote formation through an enhanced expression of zyg1 in Dictyostelium mucoroides." Exp. Cell Res. 313: 2493-2503.
	
Alvarez-Curto, E., et al. (2007). "Pharmacological profiling of the Dictyostelium adenylyl cyclases ACA; ACB and ACG." Biochem. J. 401: 309-316.
	
Alvarez-Curto, E., et al. (2007). "cAMP production by adenylyl cyclase G induces prespore differentiation in Dictyostelium slugs." Development 134: 959-966.
	
Alvarez Curto, E. (2007). Developmental regulation and evolution of cAMP signalling in Dictyostelium. Leiden, Netherlands, Universiteit Leiden: 117.
	
(2007). "Social" Dictyostelium shows immune-like behaviors. Microbe. 2: 476.
	
Zhukovskaya, N. V., et al. (2006). "The Dictyostelium bZIP transcription factor DimB regulates prestalk-specific gene expression." Development 133: 439-448.
	
Zhu, Y., et al. (2006). "Sequence analysis of RNase MRP RNA reveals its origination from eukaryotic RNase P RNA." Rna 12: 699-706.
	
Zhao, F. and Z. Tao (2006). "[Cellular automata approach to biological pattern formation (I) the aggregation pattern in Dictyostelium discoideum]." Sheng Wu Yi Xue Gong Cheng Xue Za Zhi 23: 304-308.
	
Zeng, W., et al. (2006). "Resonance energy transfer between green fluorescent protein variants: complexities revealed with myosin fusion proteins." Biochemistry 45: 10482-10491.
	
Yusof, A. M., et al. (2006). "Mechanism of oligomerisation of cyclase-associated protein from Dictyostelium discoideum in solution." J. Mol. Biol. 362: 1072-1081.
	
Yoshida, M., et al. (2006). "Cleavage with phospholipase of the lipid anchor in the cell adhesion molecule, csA, from Dictyostefium discoideum." Compar Biochem. Physiol. B 143: 138-144.
	
Yoshida, K. and T. Soldati (2006). "Dissection of amoeboid movement into two mechanically distinct modes." J. Cell Sci. 119: 3833-3844.
	
Yang, L. and P. A. Iglesias (2006). "Positive feedback may cause the biphasic response observed in the chemoattractant-induced response of Dictyostelium cells." Syst. Control Lett. 55: 329-337.
	
Xu, X., et al. (2006). "Using quantitative fluorescence microscopy and FRET imaging to measure spatiotemporal signaling events in single living cells." Meth. Mol. Biol. 346: 281-296.
	
Woznica, D. and D. A. Knecht (2006). "Under-agarose chemotaxis of Dictyostelium discoideum." Meth. Mol. Biol. 346: 311-325.
	
Williams, R. S., et al. (2006). "Towards a molecular understanding of human diseases using Dictyostelium discoideum." Trends Mol. Med. 12: 415-424.
	
Williams, J. G. (2006). "Transcriptional regulation of Dictyostelium pattern formation." EMBO Rep. 7: 694-698.
	
Willard, S. S. and P. N. Devreotes (2006). "Signaling pathways mediating chemotaxis in the social amoeba, Dictyostelium discoideum." Eur. J. Cell Biol. 85: 897-904.
	
Wiles, N. S., et al. (2006). "Identification and purification of a DNA-binding protein interacting with the promoter of 5'-nucleotidase in Dictyostelium discoideum." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 445: 26-35.
	
Wienke, D., et al. (2006). "Vacuolin, a flotillin/reggie-related protein from Dictyostelium oligomerizes for endosome association." Eur. J. Cell Biol. 85: 991-1000.
	
Wickstead, B. and K. Gull (2006). "A ''holistic'' kinesin phylogeny reveals new kinesin families and predicts protein functions." Mol. Biol. Cell 17: 1734-1743.
	
Whitney, N., et al. (2006). "A putative Ariadne-like ubiquitin ligase is required for Dictyostelium discoideum development." Euk. Cell 5: 1820-1825.
	
West, S. A., et al. (2006). "Social evolution theory for microorganisms." Nature Rev. Microbiol. 4: 597-607.
	
West, C. M., et al. (2006). "Detection of cytoplasmic glycosylation associated with hydroxyproline." Meth. Enzymol. 417: 389-404.
	
Wessels, D., et al. (2006). "The Shwachman-Bodian-Diamond syndrome gene encodes an RNA-binding protein that localizes to the pseudopod of Dictyostelium amoebae during chemotaxis." J. Cell Sci. 119: 370-379.
	
Wessels, D., et al. (2006). "Application of 2D and 3D DIAS to motion analysis of live cells in transmission and confocal microscopy imaging." Meth. Mol. Biol. 346: 261-279.
	
Weber, I. (2006). "Is there a pilot in a pseudopod?" Eur. J. Cell Biol. 85: 915-924.
	
Washington Jr, R. W. (2006). The role of the actin-binding domain in the intracellular localization of ABP-120 and alpha-actinin in Dictyostelium discoideum. Storrs, CT, University of Connecticut: 172.
	
Wang, Y. Q. and T. J. OHalloran (2006). "Abp1 regulates pseudopodium number in chemotaxing Dictyostelium cells." J. Cell Sci. 119: 702-710.
	
Wang, J. S., et al. (2006). "Clathrin light chain: Importance of the conserved carboxy terminal domain to function in living cells." Traffic 7: 824-832.
	
Vlahou, G. and F. Rivero (2006). "Rho GTPase signaling in Dictyostelium discoideum: insights from the genome." Eur. J. Cell Biol. 85: 947-959.
	
Veltman, D. M. and P. J. van Haastert (2006). "Guanylyl cyclase protein and cGMP product independently control front and back of chemotaxing Dictyostelium cells." Mol. Biol. Cell 17: 3921-3929.
	
VanRheenen, S. M., et al. (2006). "Members of a Legionella pneumophila family of proteins with ExoU (phospholipase A) active sites are translocated to target cells." Infect. Immun. 74: 3597-3606.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M. (2006). "Analysis of signal transduction: formation of cAMP, cGMP, and Ins(1,4,5)P3 in vivo and in vitro." Meth. Mol. Biol. 346: 369-392.
	
Urushihara, H. and T. Muramoto (2006). "Genes involved in Dictyostelium discoideum sexual reproduction." Eur. J. Cell Biol. 85: 961-968.
	
Urushihara, H., et al. (2006). "The cDNA sequencing project." Meth. Mol. Biol. 346: 31-49.
	
Urushihara, H. (2006). "Cultivation, spore production, and mating." Meth. Mol. Biol. 346: 113-124.
	
Unal, C. and M. Steinert (2006). "Dictyostelium discoideum as a model system to study host-pathogen interactions." Meth. Mol. Biol. 346: 507-515.
	
Uetrecht, A. C. and J. E. Bear (2006). "Coronins: the return of the crown." Trends Cell Biol. 16: 421-426.
	
Torrents, E., et al. (2006). "Euglena gracilis ribonucleotide reductase the eukaryote class II enzyme and the possible antiquity of eukaryote B12 dependence." J. Biol. Chem. 281: 5604-5611.
	
Torija, P., et al. (2006). "Functional genomics in Dictyostelium: MidA, a new conserved protein, is required for mitochondrial function and development." J. Cell Sci. 119: 1154-1164.
	
Torija, P., et al. (2006). "Optimization of a large-scale gene disruption protocol in Dictyostelium and analysis of conserved genes of unknown function." BMC Microbiol. 6:75: 7 pages.
	
Todoriki, M. and I. Urabe (2006). "Induced symbiosis: distinctive Escherichia coli-Dictyostelium discoideum transferable co-cultures on agar." Symbiosis 42(3): 135-140.
	Despite the near ubiquity of symbiosis, only a few new symbiotic 
associations have been reported. The establishment of the unique 
amoeba-bacterial symbiosis observed by Jeon and his colleagues has 
been difficult to retrace experimentally mainly because of the failure to 
grow both partners in pure culture. The details of symbiosis origin and 
especially laboratory induction are unknown in all cases. Here, we present 
an experiment in which specific strains of four-year subculture Escherichia 
coli and Dictyostelium discoideum evolved interdependently to produce a 
new morphological entity on agar plates. The cocultured organisms lost 
their pure culture identities under the conditions in which both control 
organisms retained their independent culturability. Between days 32 and 
101 of culturing of E. coli and between days 259 and 645 in D. discoideum 
pure culture identity was lost. Yet through the four years both organisms 
could always be cocultured and stored frozen. We traced the emergence 
of characteristic changes toward a repeatedly inducible symbiotic 
relationship in pure cultures of both cocultured organisms. Since both the 
enteric bacterium and the cellular slime mold are free-living and culturable 
in pure culture, genetically well-characterized. We provide a useful model 
for the laboratory study of symbiotic evolution.

Thomason, P. A., et al. (2006). "The histidine kinase homologue DhkK/Sombrero controls morphogenesis in Dictyostelium." Dev. Biol. 292: 358-370.
	
Thomason, P. A., et al. (2006). "A series of Dictyostelium expression vectors for recombination cloning." Plasmid 56: 145-152.
	
Tekinay, T., et al. (2006). "Function of the Dictyostelium discoideum atg1 kinase during autophagy and development." Euk. Cell 5: 1797-1806.
	
Taniura, H., et al. (2006). "A metabotropic glutamate receptor family gene in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 281: 12336-12343.
	
Strehle, A., et al. (2006). "Trix, a novel Rac guanine-nucleotide exchange factor from Dictyostelium discoideum is an actin-binding protein and accumulates at endosomes." Eur. J. Cell Biol. 85: 1035-1045.
	
Steffen, A., et al. (2006). "Filopodia formation in the absence of functional WAVE- and Arp2/3-complexes." Mol. Biol. Cell 17: 2581-2591.
	
Stavrou, I. and T. J. O'Halloran (2006). "The monomeric clathrin assembly protein, AP180, regulates contractile vacuole size in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Biol. Cell 17: 5381-5389.
	
Stavrou, I. (2006). Functional analysis of the clathrin assembly protein, AP180, in Dictyostelium discoideum. Austin, TX, The University of Texas at Austin: 152.
	
Song, L., et al. (2006). "Dictyostelium discoideum chemotaxis: threshold for directed motion." Eur. J. Cell Biol. 85: 981-989.
	
Somesh, B. P., et al. (2006). "RacG regulates morphology, phagocytosis and chemotaxis." Euk. Cell 5: 1648-1663.
	
Somesh, B. P., et al. (2006). "Dictyostelium RacH regulates endocytic vesicular trafficking and is required for localization of vacuolin." Traffic 7: 1194-1212.
	
Siol, O., et al. (2006). "The C-module DNA-binding factor mediates expression of the Dictyostelium aggregation-specific adenylyl cyclase ACA." Euk. Cell 5: 658-664.
	
Siol, O., et al. (2006). "Role of RNA polymerase III transcription factors in the selection of integration sites by the Dictyostelium non-long terminal repeat retrotransposon TRE5-A." Mol. Cell. Biol. 26: 8242-8251.
	
Siol, O. (2006). Untersuchungen zum spezifischen Integrations-Mechanismus der TRE5-A retrotransposons in Dictyostelium discoideum. Frankfurt am Main, Germany, Johann Wolfgang Goethe-Universitat: 153.
	
Singleton, C. K., et al. (2006). "Function of ammonium transporter A in the initiation of culmination of development in Dictyostelium discoideum." Euk. Cell 5: 991-996.
	
Shu, S., et al. (2006). "S-adenosylhomocysteine hydrolase is localized at the front of chemotaxing cells, suggesting a role for transmethylation during migration." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 103: 19788-19793.
	
Shigaki, T., et al. (2006). "Identification of three distinct phylogenetic groups of cax cation/proton antiporters." J. Mol. Evol. 63: 815-825.
	
Shanley, L. J., et al. (2006). "Influx of extracellular Ca2+ is necessary for electrotaxis in Dictyostelium." J. Cell Sci. 119: 4741-4748.
	
Secko, D. M., et al. (2006). "An activated Ras protein alters cell adhesion by dephosphorylating Dictyostelium DdCAD-1." Microbiology SGM 152: 1497-1505.
	
Schwarzl, S. M., et al. (2006). "Insights into the chemomechanical coupling of the myosin motor from simulation of its ATP hydrolysis mechanism." Biochemistry 45: 5830-5847.
	
Schulz, I., et al. (2006). "An improved method for Dictyostelium centrosome isolation." Meth. Mol. Biol. 346: 479-489.
	
Schneider, I. C. and J. M. Haugh (2006). "Mechanisms of gradient sensing and chemotaxis - Conserved pathways, diverse regulation." Cell Cycle 5: 1130-1134.
	
Schirenbeck, A., et al. (2006). "The bundling activity of vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein is required for filopodium formation." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 103: 7694-7699.
	
Schaap, P., et al. (2006). "Molecular phylogeny and evolution of morphology in the social amoebas." Science 314: 661-663.
	
Sasaki, A. T. and R. A. Firtel (2006). "Regulation of chemotaxis by the orchestrated activation of Ras, PI3K, and TOR." Eur. J. Cell Biol. 85: 873-895.
	
Samadani, A., et al. (2006). "Cellular asymmetry and individuality in directional sensing." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 103: 11549-11554.
	
Saito, T., et al. (2006). "Identification of new differentiation inducing factors from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1760: 754-761.
	
Sa, J. M., et al. (2006). "Expression and function of pvcrt-o, a Plasmodium vivax ortholog of pfcrt, in Plasmodium falciparum and Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Biochem. Parasitol. 150: 219-228.
	
Ryves, W. J. and A. J. Harwood (2006). "Use of a penetratin-linked peptide in Dictyostelium." Mol. Biotechnol. 33: 123-132.
	
Russ, M., et al. (2006). "Naringenin is a novel inhibitor of Dictyostelium cell proliferation and cell migration." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 345: 516-522.
	
Russ, M., et al. (2006). "Myosin heavy-chain kinase A from Dictyostelium possesses a novel actin-binding domain that cross-links actin filaments." Biochem. J. 395: 373-383.
	
Roth, U., et al. (2006). "Proteome analysis of Dictyostelium discoideum." Meth. Mol. Biol. 346: 95-109.
	
Rosenblad, M. A., et al. (2006). "Inventory and analysis of the protein subunits of the ribonucleases P and MRP provides further evidence of homology between the yeast and human enzymes." Nucl. Acids Res. 34: 5145-5156.
	
Rosel, D. and A. R. Kimmel (2006). "The COP9 signalosome regulates cell proliferation of Dictyostelium discoideum." Eur. J. Cell Biol. 85: 1023-1034.
	
Romeralo, M. and C. Lado (2006). "Dictyostelids from Mediterranean forests of the south of Europe." Mycol. Progress 5: 231-241.
	
Rivero, F. and M. Maniak (2006). "Quantitative and microscopic methods for studying the endocytic pathway." Meth. Mol. Biol. 346: 423-438.
	
Ritchie, A. V. (2006). Evolutionary conservation of mechanisms controllong spore and cyst formation in the solitary and social amoeba. Dundee, Scotland, University of Dundee: 143.
	
Rifkin, J. L. and R. R. Goldberg (2006). "Effects of chemoattractant pteridines upon speed of D-discoideum vegetative amoebae." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 63: 1-5.
	
Reinders, Y., et al. (2006). "Identification of novel centrosomal proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum by comparative proteomic approaches." J. Proteome Res. 5: 589-598.
	
Rai, M., et al. (2006). "Disruption of the ifkA and ifkB genes results in altered cell adhesion, morphological defects and a propensity to form pre-stalk O cells during development of Dictyostelium." Differentiation 74: 583-595.
	
Pukatzki, S., et al. (2006). "Identification of a conserved bacterial protein secretion system in Vibrio cholerae using the Dictyostelium host model system." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 103: 1528-1533.
	
Prabhu, Y. and L. Eichinger (2006). "The Dictyostelium repertoire of seven transmembrane domain receptors." Eur. J. Cell Biol. 85: 937-946.
	
Popowicz, G. M., et al. (2006). "Filamins: promiscuous organizers of the cytoskeleton." Trends Biochem. Sci. 31: 411-419.
	
Popova, B., et al. (2006). "HeIF, a putative RNA helicase acts as a nuclear suppressor of RNAi but not antisense mediated gene silencing." Nucl. Acids Res. 34: 773-784.
	
Pollitt, A. Y., et al. (2006). "Cell motility and SCAR localisation in axenically growing Dictyostelium cells." Eur. J. Cell Biol. 85: 1091-1098.
	
Peracino, B., et al. (2006). "Function and mechanism of action of Dictyostelium Nramp1 (Slc11a1) in bacterial infection." Traffic 7: 22-38.
	
Payne, S. H. and W. F. Loomis (2006). "Retention and loss of amino acid biosynthetic pathways based on analysis of whole-genome sequences." Euk. Cell 5: 272-276.
	
Octtaviani, E., et al. (2006). "Enlazin, a natural fusion of two classes of canonical cytoskeletal proteins, contributes to cytokinesis dynamics." Mol. Biol. Cell 17: 5275-5286.
	
O'Day, D. H., et al. (2006). "Isolation, characterization, and bioinformatic analysis of calmodulin-binding protein cmbB reveals a novel tandem IP22 repeat common to many Dictyostelium and Mimivirus proteins." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 346: 879-888.
	
O'Day, D. H. (2006). Calmodulin-mediated signaling in Dictyostelium discoideum: CaMBOT isolation and characterization of the novel poly-domain protein nucleomorphin and other calmodulin-binding proteins. Focus on cellular signalling research. D. T. Leeds, Nova Science Publ.
	
Myers, S. A., et al. (2006). "WASP-interacting protein (WIPa) is important for actin filament elongation and prompt pseudopod formation in response to a dynamic chemoattractant gradient." Mol. Biol. Cell 17: 4564-4575.
	
Myers, S. A. (2006). Roles of WASP and WIP in actin polymerization and pseudopod formation during chemotaxis. Nashville, TN, Vanderbilt University: 117.
	
Muramoto, T. and H. Urushihara (2006). "Small GTPase RacF2 affects sexual cell fusion and asexual development in Dictyostelium discoideum through the regulation of cell adhesion." Devel. Growth Differ. 48: 199-208.
	
Muller-Taubenberger, A., et al. (2006). "Monomeric red fluorescent protein variants used for imaging studies in different species." Eur. J. Cell Biol. 85: 1119-1129.
	
Muller-Taubenberger, A. and S. Bozzaro (2006). "Editorial: From cell-cell adhesion and cellular oscillations to spectacular views inside the cell - 50 years of research with Dictyostelium." Eur. J. Cell Biol. 85: 851-858.
	
Muller-Taubenberger, A. (2006). "Application of fluorescent protein tags as reporters in live-cell imaging studies." Meth. Mol. Biol. 346: 229-246.
	
Mosig, A., et al. (2006). "Fragrep an efficient search tool for fragmented patterns in genomic sequences." Genom. Proteom. Bioinf. 4: 56-60.
	
Moore, D. and A. Meskauskas (2006). "A comprehensive comparative analysis of the occurrence of developmental sequences in fungal; plant and animal genomes." Mycol. Res. 110: 251-256.
	
Min, J., et al. (2006). "Sensitive cell viability assay for use in drug screens and for studying the mechanism of action of drugs in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biotechniques 41: 591-595.
	
Mercanti, V., et al. (2006). "Selective membrane exclusion in phagocytic and macropinocytic cups." J. Cell Sci. 119: 4079-4087.
	
Mercanti, V., et al. (2006). "Acidic clusters target transmembrane proteins to the contractile vacuole in Dictyostelium cells." J. Cell Sci. 119: 837-845.
	
Meng, X., et al. (2006). "A flexible linkage between the dynein motor and its cargo." J. Mol. Biol. 357: 701-706.
	
Mendoza, M. C. and R. A. Firtel (2006). "Assaying chemotaxis of Dictyostelium cells." Meth. Mol. Biol. 346: 393-405.
	
Meier-Schellersheim, M., et al. (2006). "Key role of local regulation in chemosensing revealed by a new molecular interaction-based modeling method." PLoS Comput. Biol. 2: e82.
	
Mehdiabadi, N. J., et al. (2006). "Kin preference in a social microbe." Nature 442: 881-882.
	
Mattei, S., et al. (2006). "Trafficking and developmental signaling: Alix at the crossroads." Eur. J. Cell Biol. 85: 925-936.
	
Matsuoka, S., et al. (2006). "Single-molecule analysis of chemoattractant-stimulated membrane recruitment of a PH-domain-containing protein." J. Cell Sci. 119: 1071-1079.
	
Marx, K. A., et al. (2006). "Evidence for long poly(DA).poly(DT) tracts in D. discoideum DNA at high frequencies and their preferential avoidance of nucleosomal DNA core regions." J. Biomol. Struct. Dyn. 23: 429-446.
	
Marsano, F., et al. (2006). A systems biology approach reveals Hg induced stress responses in the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum. Marine Environ Res.
	Preliminary work has demonstrated that the social ameba Dictyostelium discoideum is an excellent
bioindicator of water pollution. In this study, cells were exposed to Hg sub-lethal concentrations, a
hazardous contaminant.
Our data demonstrate that nano/micromolar concentrations of Hg (0.5–2 lM) significantly affect
important physiological parameters such as cellular concentration of free calcium, lysosomal
membrane stability and endocytosis rate, without altering cell replication rate or cell survival. To
better understand the molecular mechanisms behind Hg-response, extracts of control and Hg-treated
cells were analysed on two-dimensional electrophoresis (2DE) gels. A reference 2DE map (pI range
3–10) containing some 900 protein spots was obtained. Identification of excised spots was performed
using MALDI TOF peptide mass fingerprinting, and the identities of some 100 proteins were revealed.
Protein identities were grouped as follows: 17% structural proteins, 18% signal-transduction
proteins, 24% metabolic enzymes, 12% stress-related proteins, 5% calcium-binding proteins, and 24% 
miscellaneous proteins. The results further demonstrated that 15 of the identified proteins were
affected by Hg, e.g. glutathione-S-transferase, catalase, thioredoxin 3, GMP synthase, G protein asubunit-
like protein, acidic protein P2, and hypothetical protein gi28828580, all of which show a
dramatic increase up to 4-fold in Hg-treated cells. Preliminary transcriptomic analysis, using
microarrays, revealed an activation of several genes involved in toxicity resistance (e.g., GSHtranferases,
ABC transporters, heavy metal carrier proteins, etc.), metabolic and other redox processes
(e.g., sod, GSH-reductase, thioredoxin, aldo/keto-reductase, etc.), together with a number of
genes not yet characterized. Finally, metabolomic profiles will be integrated in order to obtain a
global overview of the molecular responses to Hg-exposure.

Marko, M., et al. (2006). "The annexins of Dictyostelium." Eur. J. Cell Biol. 85: 1011-1022.
	
Marin, I. (2006). "The Parkinson disease gene lrrk2: evolutionary and structural insights." Mol. Biol. Evol. 23: 2423-2433.
	
Malchow, D., et al. (2006). "The contractile vacuole in Ca2+-regulation in Dictyostelium: its essential function for cAMP-induced Ca2+-influx." BMC Dev. Biol. 6:31: 8 pages.
	
Mahadeo, D. C. and C. A. Parent (2006). "Signal relay during the life cycle of Dictyostelium." Curr. Topics Dev. Biol. 73: 115-140.
	
Maeda, M. (2006). "Periodic activation of ERK2 and partial involvement of G protein in ERK2 activation by cAMP in Dictyostelium cells." Meth. Mol. Biol. 346: 468-478.
	
MacWilliams, H., et al. (2006). "A retinoblastoma ortholog controls stalk/spore preference in Dictyostelium." Development 133: 1287-1297.
	
Loovers, H. M., et al. (2006). "Distinct roles of PI(3,4,5)P-3 during chemoattractant signaling in Dictyostelium: a quantitative in vivo analysis by inhibition of PI3-kinase." Mol. Biol. Cell 17: 1503-1513.
	
Loomis, W. F. (2006). "The Dictyostelium genome." Curr. Issues Mol. Biol. 8: 63-73.
	
London, R., et al. (2006). "The pursuit of cryptococcal pathogenesis heterologous hosts and the study of cryptococcal host-pathogen interactions." FEMS Yeast Res. 6: 567-573.
	
Lohkamp, B., et al. (2006). "The crystal structures of dihydropyrimidinases reaffirm the close relationship between cyclic amidohydrolases and explain their substrate specificity." J. Biol. Chem. 281: 13762-13776.
	
Lohkamp, B., et al. (2006). "Purification, crystallization and X-ray diffraction analysis of dihydropyrimidinase from Dictyostelium discoideum." Acta Cryst. Sect F 62: p36-38.
	
Liu, X., et al. (2006). "Phosphorylation of actin Tyr-53 inhibits filament nucleation and elongation and destabilizes filaments." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 103: 13694-13699.
	
Litcanu, G. and J. J. L. Velazquez (2006). "Singular perturbation analysis of cAMP signalling in dictyostelium discoideum aggregates." J. Math. Biol. 52: 682-718.
	
Lin, Z., et al. (2006). "Solution structures of the adhesion molecule DdCAD-1 reveal new insights into Ca(2+)-dependent cell-cell adhesion." Nature Struct. Mol. Biol. 13: 1016-1022.
	
Li, J. (2006). Studies on the interaction between Dictyostelium PakB and dAbp1. Kingston, Ont., Canada, Queen's University: 80.
	
Levine, H., et al. (2006). "Directional sensing in eukaryotic chemotaxis: A balanced inactivation model." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 103: 9761-9766.
	
Leng, X. and H. G. Muller (2006). "Classification using functional data analysis for temporal gene expression data." Bioinformatics 22: 68-76.
	
Lecaudey, V. and D. Gilmour (2006). "Organizing moving groups during morphogenesis." Curr. Opin. Cell Biol. 18: 102-107.
	
Langridge, P. D. and R. R. Kay (2006). "Blebbing of Dictyostelium cells in response to chemoattractant." Exp. Cell Res. 312: 2009-2017.
	
Landolt, J. C., et al. (2006). "Dictyostelid cellular slime molds from caves." J. Cave Karst Studies 68: 22-26.
	
Landolt, J. C., et al. (2006). "Distribution and ecology of dictyostelid cellular slime molds in Great Smoky Mountains National Park." Mycologia 98: 541-549.
	
Laguna, R. K., et al. (2006). "A Legionella pneumophila-translocated substrate that is required for growth within macrophages and protection from host cell death." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 103: 18745-18750.
	
Lacayo, C. I. (2006). Significance of cytoarchitecture in modulating actin-based motility and cell morphology. Palo Alto, CA, Stanford University: 142.
	
Kuzdzal, J. J. (2006). Exploiting new terrain: an advantage to sociality in the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. Houston, TX, Rice University: 15.
	
Kuspa, A. and W. F. Loomis (2006). "The genome of Dictyostelium discoideum." Meth. Mol. Biol. 346: 15-30.
	
Kuspa, A. (2006). "Restriction enzyme-mediated integration (REMI) mutagenesis." Meth. Mol. Biol. 346: 201-209.
	
Kuhlmann, M., et al. (2006). "RNA interference and antisense-mediated gene silencing in Dictyostelium." Meth. Mol. Biol. 346: 211-226.
	
Kosta, A., et al. (2006). "How to assess and study cell death in Dictyostelium discoideum." Meth. Mol. Biol. 346: 535-550.
	
Kortholt, A., et al. (2006). "Characterization of the GbpD-activated Rap1 pathway regulating adhesion and cell polarity in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 281: 23367-23376.
	
Korman, V. L., et al. (2006). "Structural dynamics of the actin-myosin interface by site-directed spectroscopy." J. Mol. Biol. 356: 1107-1117.
	
Koppole, S., et al. (2006). "Simulations of the myosin II motor reveal a nucleotide-state sensing element that controls the recovery stroke." J. Mol. Biol. 361: 604-616.
	
Kollmar, M. (2006). "Use of the myosin motor domain as large-affinity tag for the expression and purification of proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum." Int. J. Biol. Macromol. 39: 37-44.
	
Kollmar, M. (2006). "Thirteen is enough The myosins of Dictyostelium discoideum and their light chains." BMC Genomics 7:183: 15 pages.
	
Koch, K. V., et al. (2006). "Identification and isolation of Dictyostelium microtubule-associated protein interactors by tandem affinity purification." Eur. J. Cell Biol. 85: 1079-1090.
	
Koch, K. V. (2006). Identification and analysis of Dictyostelium discoideum microtubule associated proteins. Marburg/Lahn, Germany, Philipps-Universitat Marburg: 123.
	
King, J. and R. Insall (2006). "Parasexual genetics using axenic cells." Meth. Mol. Biol. 346: 125-135.
	
Kimmel, A. R. and J. Faix (2006). "Generation of multiple knockout strains using the Cre-loxP system." Meth. Mol. Biol. 346: 187-199.
	
Kim, L. and A. R. Kimmel (2006). "Gsk3 at the edge: regulation of developmental specification and cell polarization." Curr. Drug Targets 7: 1411-1419.
	
Kim, J., et al. (2006). "Robustness analysis of biochemical network models." Syst. Biol. (Stevenage) 153: 96-104.
	
Kikuchi, H., et al. (2006). "Anti-leukemic activities of Dictyostelium secondary metabolites: a novel aromatic metabolite, 4-methyl-5-N-pentylbenzene-1,3-diol, isolated from Dictyostelium mucoroides suppresses cell growth in human leukemia K562 and HL-60 cells." Life Sci. 80: 160-165.
	
Khosla, M., et al. (2006). "A secondary disruption of the dmpA gene encoding a large membrane protein allows aggregation defective Dictyostelium rasC- cells to form multicellular structures." Dev. Biol. 292: 68-78.
	
Khare, A. and G. Shaulsky (2006). "First among equals: competition between genetically identical cells." Nature Rev. Genet. 7: 577-583.
	
Kessin, R. H. (2006). "The secret lives of Dictyostelium." Meth. Mol. Biol. 346: 3-14.
	
Kelleher, D. J. and R. Gilmore (2006). "An evolving view of the eukaryotic oligosaccharyltransferase." Glycobiology 16(4): 47R-62R.
	Asparagine-linked glycosylation (ALG) is one of the most common protein modification reactions in eukaryotic cells, as many proteins that are translocated across or integrated into the rough endoplasmic reticulum (RER) carry N-linked oligosaccharides. Although the primary focus of this review will be the structure and function of the eukaryotic oligosaccharyltransferase (OST), key findings provided by the analysis of the archaebacterial and eubacterial OST homologues will be reviewed, particularly those that provide insight into the recognition of donor and acceptor substrates. Selection of the fully assembled donor substrate will be considered in the context of the family of human diseases known as congenital disorders of glycosylation (CDG). The yeast and vertebrate OST are surprisingly complex hetero-oligomeric proteins consisting of seven or eight subunits (Ost1p, Ost2p, Ost3p/Ost6p, Ost4p, Ost5p, Stt3p, Wbp1p, and Swp1p in yeast; ribophorin I, DAD1, N33/IAP, OST4, STT3A/STT3B, Ost48, and ribophorin II in mammals). Recent findings from several laboratories have provided overwhelming evidence that the STT3 subunit is critical for catalytic activity. Here, we will consider the evolution and assembly of the eukaryotic OST in light of recent genomic evidence concerning the subunit composition of the enzyme in diverse eukaryotes.

Kaushik, S., et al. (2006). "Social behaviour in genetically heterogeneous groups of Dictyostelium giganteum." Behavioral Ecol. Sociobiol. 59: 521-530.
	
Kaul, M. and L. Eichinger (2006). "Analysis of gene expression using cDNA microarrays." Meth. Mol. Biol. 346: 75-93.
	
Katz, E. R. (2006). "Kenneth Raper, Elisha Mitchell and Dictyostelium." J. Biosci. 31: 195-200.
	
Katoh, M., et al. (2006). "Developmentally regulated DNA methylation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Euk. Cell 5: 18-25.
	
Kaller, M., et al. (2006). "Epigenetics in Dictyostelium." Meth. Mol. Biol. 346: 491-505.
	
Kaller, M., et al. (2006). "Differential effects of heterochromatin protein 1 isoforms on mitotic chromosome distribution and growth in Dictyostelium discoideum." Euk. Cell 5: 530-543.
	
Kafer, J., et al. (2006). "Moving forward moving backwarD directional sorting of chemotactic cells due to size and adhesion differences." PLoS Comput. Biol. 2: e56.
	
Joyce, B. R. (2006). Regulation of alkaline phosphatase during development of Dictyostelium. Blacksburg, VA, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University: 82.
	
Johnson, B. R. G., et al. (2006). "Self-assembly of actin scaffolds at ponticulin-containing supported phospholipid bilayers." Biophys. J. 90: L21-L23.
	
Jin, T. and D. Hereld (2006). "Moving toward understanding eukaryotic chemotaxis." Eur. J. Cell Biol. 85: 905-913.
	
Jeong, S. Y., et al. (2006). "Thioredoxin reductase is required for growth and regulates entry into culmination of Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Microbiol. 6: 1443-1456.
	
Jennes, I. (2006). "[International Dictyostelium Conference 2005]." Pharm. Unserer Zeit 35: 163.
	
Jeltsch, A., et al. (2006). "Two substrates are better than one: dual specificities for Dnmt2 methyltransferases." Trends Biochem Sci 31(6): 306-308.
	Dnmt2 enzymes have been widely conserved during evolution and contain all of the signature motifs of DNA (cytosine-5)-methyltransferases; however, the DNA methyltransferase activity of these proteins is comparatively weak and their biochemical and functional properties remain enigmatic. Recent evidence now shows that Dnmt2 has a novel tRNA methyltransferase activity, raising the possibility that the biological roles of these proteins might be broader than previously thought. This finding has important implications for understanding the evolutionary relationships among these enzymes.

Jang, W. and R. H. Gomer (2006). "A protein in crude cytosol regulates glucose-6-phosphatase activity in crude microsomes to regulate group size in Dictyostelium." J. Biol. Chem. 281: 16377-16383.
	
Jaiswal, J. K., et al. (2006). "Trishanku, a novel regulator of cell-type stability and morphogenesis in Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 74: 596-607.
	
Iranfar, N., et al. (2006). "Transcriptional regulation of post-aggregation genes in Dictyostelium by a feed-forward loop involving GBF and LagC." Dev. Biol. 290: 460-469.
	
Ibarra, N., et al. (2006). "Nap1 regulates Dictyostelium cell motility and adhesion through SCAR-dependent and -independent pathways." Curr. Biol. 16: 717-722.
	
Huang, E. Y., et al. (2006). "bZlP transcription factor interactions regulate DIF responses in Dictyostelium." Development 133: 449-458.
	
Hsu, D. W., et al. (2006). "DNA damage signaling and repair in Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Cycle 5: 702-708.
	
Hirose, S., et al. (2006). "cis-Acting site controlling bidirectional transcription at the growth-differentiation transition in Dictyostelium discoideum." Euk. Cell 5: 1104-1110.
	
Hiratsuka, T. (2006). "The interaction of Phe472 with a fluorescent inhibitor bound to the complex of myosin subfragment-1 with nucleotide." Biochemistry 45: 1234-1241.
	
Hinas, A., et al. (2006). "Identification of the major spliceosomal RNAs in Dictyostelium discoideum reveals developmentally regulated U2 variants and polyadenylated snRNAs." Euk. Cell 5: 924-934.
	
Heuser, J. (2006). "Editorial: Evidence for recycling of contractile vacuole membrane during osmoregulation in Dictyostelium amoebae - A tribute to Gunther Gerisch." Eur. J. Cell Biol. 85: 859-871.
	
Hennebry, S. C., et al. (2006). "Structural and functional evolution of transthyretin and transthyretin-like proteins." Proteins 64: 1024-1045.
	
Heinrich, D. and E. Sackmann (2006). "Active mechanical stabilization of the viscoplastic intracellular space of Dictyostelia cells by microtubule-actin crosstalk." Acta Biomater. 2: 619-631.
	
Han, J. W., et al. (2006). "Role of RacC for the regulation of wasp and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase during chemotaxis of Dictyostelium." J. Biol. Chem. 281: 35224-35234.
	
Hamana, K., et al. (2006). "Analysis of cellular polyamines of slime molds in comparison to the polyamine profiles of phylogenetically related organisms." J. Gen. Appl. Microbiol. 52: 107-112.
	
Hagiwara, H. and H. Hosono (2006). "Dictyostelids in Japan. XIV. Dictyostelium rosarium Raper & Cavender and Polysphodylium filamentosum Traub, Hohl & Cavender." Bull. Natl. Sci. Mus. Tokyo, Ser. B 32: 1-8.
	
Hagiwara, H. (2006). "Taxonomic studies on dictyostelids. 2. Review of the voucher specimens of Dictyostelium brevicaule, D. mucoroides, and D. sphaerocephalum prepared by E. W. Olive and preserved in the Farlow Herbarium (FH)." Bull. Natl. Sci. Mus. Tokyo, Ser. B 32: 47-65.
	
Hagedorn, M., et al. (2006). "Optimized fixation and immunofluorescence staining methods for Dictyostelium cells." Meth. Mol. Biol. 346: 327-338.
	
Hadjout, N. (2006). Leukocyte chemotaxis assay development and studies of leukocyte chemotaxis modulation by metallothionein. Storrs, CT, University of Connecticut: 156.
	
Ha, S. G., et al. (2006). "Identification and characterization of a lysosomal membrane protein of Dictyostelium discoideum with monoclonal antibodies." Hybridoma (Larchmt) 25: 336-341.
	
Guder, C., et al. (2006). "An ancient Wnt-Dickkopf antagonism in Hydra." Development 133(5): 901-911.
	The dickkopf (dkk) gene family encodes secreted antagonists of Wnt signalling proteins, which have important functions in the control of cell fate, proliferation, and cell polarity during development. Here, we report the isolation, from a regeneration-specific signal peptide screen, of a novel dickkopf gene from the fresh water cnidarian Hydra. Comparative sequence analysis demonstrates that the Wnt antagonistic subfamily Dkk1/Dkk2/Dkk4 and the non-modulating subfamily Dkk3 separated prior to the divergence of cnidarians and bilaterians. In steady-state Hydra, hydkk1/2/4-expression is inversely related to that of hywnt3a. hydkk1/2/4 is an early injury and regeneration responsive gene, and hydkk1/2/4-expressing gland cells are essential for head regeneration in Hydra, although once the head has regenerated they are excluded from it. Activation of Wnt/beta-Catenin signalling leads to the complete downregulation of hydkk1/2/4 transcripts. When overexpressed in Xenopus, HyDkk1/2/4 has similar Wnt-antagonizing activity to the Xenopus gene Dkk1. Based on the corresponding expression patterns of hydkk1/2/4 and neuronal genes, we suggest that the body column of Hydra is a neurogenic environment suppressing Wnt signalling and facilitating neurogenesis.

Grimson, M. J. and R. L. Blanton (2006). "Cryofixation methods for ultrastructural studies of Dictyostelium discoideum." Meth. Mol. Biol. 346: 339-365.
	
Gotthardt, D., et al. (2006). "Preparation of intact, highly purified phagosomes from Dictyostelium." Meth. Mol. Biol. 346: 439-448.
	
Gotthardt, D., et al. (2006). "Proteomic fingerprinting of phagosome maturation and evidence for the role of a Galpha during uptake." Mol. Cell. Proteomics 5.12: 2228-2243.
	
Goodwin, T. J., et al. (2006). "Multiple, non-allelic, intein-coding sequences in eukaryotic RNA polymerase genes." BMC Biol. 4:38: 17 pages.
	
Goldbeter, A. (2006). "Oscillations and waves of cyclic AMP in Dicyostelium: a prototype for spatio-temporal organization and pulsatile intercellular communication." Bull. Math. Biol. 68: 1095-1109.
	
Goldberg, J. M., et al. (2006). "Myosin light chain kinase A is activated by cGMP-dependent and cGMP-independent pathways." FEBS Lett. 580: 2059-2064.
	
Goldberg, J. M., et al. (2006). "The Dictyostelium kinome - analysis of the protein kinases from a simple model organism." PLoS Genet. 2: e38.
	
Godula, T., et al. (2006). "The emergence of wave emitting centres in an excitable medium." J. Theor. Biol. 240: 136-148.
	
Girard, K. D., et al. (2006). "Dictyostelium myosin II mechanochemistry promotes active behavior of the cortex on long time scales." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 103: 2103-2108.
	
Furukawa, R. and M. Fechheimer (2006). "Characterization of cross-linked actin filament gels and bundles using birefringence and polarized light scattering." Meth. Mol. Biol. 346: 407-421.
	
Fukuzawa, M., et al. (2006). "Regulation of Dictyostelium prestalk-specific gene expression by a SHAQKY family MYB transcription factor." Development 133: 1715-1724.
	
Fujita-Becker, S., et al. (2006). "Functional characterization of the N-terminal region of myosin-2." J. Biol. Chem. 281: 36102-36109.
	
Fuchs, B. B. and E. Mylonakis (2006). "Using non-mammalian hosts to study fungal virulence and host defense." Curr. Opin. Microbiol. 9: 346-351.
	
Franca-Koh, J., et al. (2006). "Navigating signaling networks: chemotaxis in Dictyostelium discoideum." Curr. Opin. Genet. Devel. 16: 333-338.
	
Fisher, P. R. and Z. Wilczynska (2006). "Contribution of endoplasmic reticulum to Ca2+ signals in Dictyostelium depends on extracellular Ca2+." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 257: 268-277.
	
Fisher, P. R. and S. J. Annesley (2006). "Slug phototaxis, thermotaxis, and spontaneous turning behavior." Meth. Mol. Biol. 346: 137-170.
	
Fischer, M., et al. (2006). "Visualizing cytoskeleton dynamics in mammalian cells using a humanized variant of monomeric red fluorescent protein." FEBS Lett. 580: 2495-2502.
	
Fischbach, A., et al. (2006). "Disruption of inositol biosynthesis through targeted mutagenesis in Dictyostelium discoideum: generation and characterization of inositol-auxotrophic mutants." Biochem. J. 397: 509-518.
	
Fey, P., et al. (2006). "dictyBase and the Dicty Stock Center." Meth. Mol. Biol. 346: 51-74.
	
Farbrother, P., et al. (2006). "Dictyostelium transcriptional host cell response upon infection with Legionella." Cell. Microbiol. 8: 438-456.
	
Faix, J. and K. Rottner (2006). "The making of filopodia." Curr. Opin. Cell Biol. 18: 18-25.
	
Faix, J. and R. Grosse (2006). "Staying in shape with formins." Dev Cell 10(6): 693-706.
	Formins constitute a diverse protein family present in all eukaryotes examined. They are defined by the presence of a formin homology 2 (FH2) domain, which possesses intrinsic and conserved functions regulating cytoskeletal dynamics. Over the past few years, formins have become recognized as potent nucleators of linear actin filaments that control a large variety of cellular and morphogenetic functions. Here, we review the molecular principles of formin-induced cytoskeletal rearrangements and their consequences for a growing number of biological processes.

Etzrodt, M., et al. (2006). "Time-resolved responses to chemoattractant, characteristic of the front and tail of Dictyostelium cells." FEBS Lett. 580: 6707-6713.
	
Escalante, R. and L. Sastre (2006). "Investigating gene expression: in situ hybridization and reporter genes." Meth. Mol. Biol. 346: 247-260.
	
Ercan, A., et al. (2006). "Molecular characterization of a novel UDP-galactose:fucoside alpha3-galactosyltransferase that modifies Skp1 in the cytoplasm of Dictyostelium." J. Biol. Chem. 281: 12713-12721.
	
Engel, R., et al. (2006). "Spectral characterization of Dictyostelium autofluorescence." Microsc. Res. Techn. 69: 168-174.
	
Eichinger, L. and F. Rivero (2006). Dictyostelium discoideum Protocols. Totowa, NJ, Humana Press.
	
Effler, J. C., et al. (2006). "Mitosis-specific mechanosensing and contractile-protein redistribution control cell shape." Curr Biol 16(19): 1962-1967.
	Because cell-division failure is deleterious, promoting tumorigenesis in mammals, cells utilize numerous mechanisms to control their cell-cycle progression. Though cell division is considered a well-ordered sequence of biochemical events, cytokinesis, an inherently mechanical process, must also be mechanically controlled to ensure that two equivalent daughter cells are produced with high fidelity. Given that cells respond to their mechanical environment, we hypothesized that cells utilize mechanosensing and mechanical feedback to sense and correct shape asymmetries during cytokinesis. Because the mitotic spindle and myosin II are vital to cell division, we explored their roles in responding to shape perturbations during cell division. We demonstrate that the contractile proteins myosin II and cortexillin I redistribute in response to intrinsic and externally induced shape asymmetries. In early cytokinesis, mechanical load overrides spindle cues and slows cytokinesis progression while contractile proteins accumulate and correct shape asymmetries. In late cytokinesis, mechanical perturbation also directs contractile proteins but without apparently disrupting cytokinesis. Significantly, this response only occurs during anaphase through cytokinesis, does not require microtubules, and is independent of spindle orientation, but is dependent on myosin II. Our data provide evidence for a mechanosensory system that directs contractile proteins to regulate cell shape during mitosis.

Durrwang, U., et al. (2006). "Dictyostelium myosin-IE is a fast molecular motor involved in phagocytosis." J. Cell Sci. 119: 550-558.
	
Dormann, D. and C. J. Weijer (2006). "Visualizing signaling and cell movement during the multicellular stages of Dictyostelium development." Meth. Mol. Biol. 346: 297-309.
	
Dormann, D. and C. J. Weijer (2006). "Imaging of cell migration." EMBO J. 25: 3480-3493.
	
Dormann, D. and C. J. Weijer (2006). "Chemotactic cell movement during Dictyostelium development and gastrulation." Curr. Opin. Genet. Devel. 16: 367-373.
	
Dorer, M. S. and R. R. Isberg (2006). "Non-vertebrate hosts in the analysis of host-pathogen interactions." Microbes Infect. 8: 1637-1646.
	
Dondero, F., et al. (2006). "Cellular responses to environmental contaminants in amoebic cells of the slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Compar. Biochem. Physiol. C 143: 150-157.
	
Dean, S. S. (2006). Regulation of myosin II localization during cytokinesis. Palo Alto, CA, Stanford University: 150.
	
Dallon, J., et al. (2006). "Mathematically modelling the effects of counting factor in Dictyostelium discoideum." Math. Medicine Biol. 23: 45-62.
	
Crawley, S. W., et al. (2006). "Identification and characterization of an 8-kDa light chain associated with Dictyostelium discoideum MyoB, a class I myosin." J. Biol. Chem. 281: 6307-6315.
	
Crawley, S. W. (2006). Regulation of class I and class II myosins in Dictyostelium discoideum. Kingston, Ont., Canada, Queen's University: 176.
	
Cornillon, S., et al. (2006). "An adhesion molecule in free-living Dictyostelium amoebae with integrin beta features." EMBO Rep. 7: 617-621.
	
Comer, F. I. and C. A. Parent (2006). "Phosphoinositide 3-kinase activity controls the chemoattractant-mediated activation and adaptation of adenylyl cyclase." Mol. Biol. Cell 17: 357-366.
	
Clotworthy, M. and D. Traynor (2006). "On the effects of cycloheximide on cell motility and polarisation in Dictyostelium discoideum." BMC Cell Biol. 7:5: 10 pages.
	
Clarke, M., et al. (2006). "Mechanically induced actin-mediated rocketing of phagosomes." Mol. Biol. Cell 17: 4866-4875.
	
Clarke, M. and L. Maddera (2006). "Phagocyte meets prey - Uptake, internalization, and killing of bacteria by Dictyostelium amoebae." Eur. J. Cell Biol. 85: 1001-1010.
	
Chubb, J. R., et al. (2006). "Transcriptional pulsing of a developmental gene." Curr. Biol. 16: 1018-1025.
	
Chubb, J. R., et al. (2006). "Developmental timing in Dictyostelium is regulated by the Set1 histone methyltransferase." Dev. Biol. 292: 519-532.
	
Choi, Y. K., et al. (2006). "Functional role of sepiapterin reductase in the biosynthesis of tetrahydropteridines in Dictyostelium discoideum Ax2." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1760: 877-882.
	
Choi, C. H., et al. (2006). "Reduced glutathione levels affect the culmination and cell fate decision in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 295: 523-533.
	
Chisholm, R. L., et al. (2006). "dictyBase, the model organism database for Dictyostelium discoideum." Nucl. Acids Res. 34: D423-D427.
	
Cherix, N., et al. (2006). "A Phg2-Adrm1 pathway participates in the nutrient-controlled developmental response in Dictyostelium." Mol. Biol. Cell 17: 4982-4987.
	
Chen, S. and J. E. Segall (2006). "EppA; a putative substrate of DdERK2; regulates cyclic AMP relay and chemotaxis in Dictyostelium discoideum." Euk. Cell 5: 1136-1146.
	
Chen, S. (2006). Identification and characterization of EppA as a potential substrate of DdERK2 in cAMP relay and chemotaxis of Dictyostelium. New York, NY, Yeshiva University: 99.
	
Chen, Q., et al. (2006). "Contractile ring-independent localization of DdINCENP, a protein important for spindle stability and cytokinesis." Mol. Biol. Cell 17: 779-788.
	
Chen, L. (2006). Regulation of actin polymerization during chemotaxis in Dictyostelium discoideum. Baltimore, MD, The Johns Hopkins University: 82.
	
Chen, F., et al. (2006). "OrthoMCL-DB querying a comprehensive multi-species collection of ortholog groups." Nucl. Acids Res. 34: D363-D368.
	
Charette, S. J., et al. (2006). "A role for adaptor protein-3 complex in the organization of the endocytic pathway in Dictyostelium." Traffic 7: 1528-1538.
	
Charette, S. J. and P. Cosson (2006). "Exocytosis of late endosomes does not directly contribute membrane to the formation of phagocytic cups or pseudopods in Dictyostelium." FEBS Lett. 580: 4923-4928.
	
Charette, S. J., et al. (2006). "Identification of low frequency knockout mutants in Dictyostelium discoideum created by single or double homologous recombination." J. Biotechnol. 122: 1-4.
	
Cerutti, H. and J. A. Casas-Mollano (2006). "On the origin and functions of RNA-mediated silencing: from protists to man." Curr. Genet. 50: 81-99.
	
Caracino, D. (2006). The regulation of Dictyostelium Scar by N-terminal sequences. Atlanta, GA, Emory University: 230.
	
Cabral, M., et al. (2006). "Genetic evidence that the acyl coenzyme a binding protein acba and the serine protease/abc transporter tagA function together in Dictyostelium discoideum cell differentiation." Euk. Cell 5: 2024-2032.
	
Brzostowski, J. A. and A. R. Kimmel (2006). "Nonadaptive regulation of ERK2 in Dictyostelium implications for mechanisms of cAMP relay." Mol. Biol. Cell 17: 4220-4227.
	
Brock, D. A., et al. (2006). "A 60-kilodalton protein component of the counting factor complex regulates group size in Dictyostelium discoideum." Euk. Cell 5: 1532-1538.
	
Bozzaro, S. (2006). "Assaying cell-cell adhesion." Meth. Mol. Biol. 346: 449-467.
	
Bosgraaf, L. and P. J. van Haastert (2006). "The regulation of myosin II in Dictyostelium." Eur. J. Cell Biol. 85: 969-979.
	
Bonner, J. T. (2006). "Migration in Dictyostelium polycephalum." Mycologia 98: 260-264.
	
Bolourani, P., et al. (2006). "Delineation of the roles played by RasG and RasC in cAMP-dependent signal transduction during the early development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Biol. Cell 17: 4543-4550.
	
Boeckeler, K., et al. (2006). "Aberrant stalk development and breakdown of tip dominance in Dictyostelium cell lines with RNAi-silenced expression of calcineurin B." BMC Dev. Biol. 6:12: 11 pages.
	
Boeckeler, K., et al. (2006). "The neuroprotective agent, valproic acid, regulates the mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway through modulation of protein kinase A signalling in Dictyostelium discoideum." Eur. J. Cell Biol. 85: 1047-1057.
	
Bennett, M., et al. (2006). "Inositol pyrophosphates: metabolism and signaling." Cell. Mol. Life Sci. 63: 552-564.
	
Benghezal, M., et al. (2006). "Specific host genes required for the killing of Klebsiella bacteria by phagocytes." Cell. Microbiol. 8: 139-148.
	
Barentin, C., et al. (2006). "An iterative method to calculate forces exerted by single cells and multicellular assemblies from the detection of deformations of flexible substrates." Eur. Biophys. J. Biophys. Lett. 35: 328-339.
	
Bandala-Sanchez, E., et al. (2006). "A phototaxis signalling complex in Dictyostelium discoideum." Eur. J. Cell Biol. 85: 1099-1106.
	
Balbo, A. and S. Bozzaro (2006). "Cloning of Dictyostelium eIF6 (p27(BBP)) and mapping its nucle(ol)ar localization subdomains." Eur. J. Cell Biol. 85: 1069-1078.
	
Bakthavatsalam, D., et al. (2006). "Novel phosphatidylinositol phosphate kinases with a G-protein coupled receptor signature are shared by Dictyostelium and Phytophthora." Trends Microbiol. 14: 378-382.
	
Bagorda, A., et al. (2006). "Chemotaxis: moving forward and holding on to the past." Thromb. Haemost. 95: 12-21.
	
Bader, S., et al. (2006). "DdPDE4, a novel cAMP-specific phosphodiesterase at the surface of Dictyostelium cells." J. Biol. Chem. 281: 20018-20026.
	
Austin, M. B., et al. (2006). "Biosynthesis of Dictyostelium discoideum differentiation-inducing factor by a hybrid type I fatty acid-type III polyketide synthase." Nat. Chem. Biol. 2: 494-502.
	
Aubry, L. and G. Klein (2006). "Purification techniques of subcellular compartments for analytical and preparative purposes." Meth. Mol. Biol. 346: 171-185.
	
Arasada, R., et al. (2006). "Characterization of the Ste20-like kinase Krs1 of Dictyostelium discoideum." Eur. J. Cell Biol. 85: 1059-1068.
	
Aoshima, R., et al. (2006). "Analysis of a homologue of the adducin head gene which is a potential target for the Dictyostelium STAT protein Dd-STATa." Int. J. Dev. Biol. 50: 523-532.
	
Anjard, C. and W. F. Loomis (2006). "GABA induces terminal differentiation of Dictyostelium through a GABA(B) receptor." Development 133: 2253-2261.
	
Andersson, J. O., et al. (2006). "Evolution of four gene families with patchy phylogenetic distributions influx of genes into protist genomes." BMC Evol. Biol. 6:27: 18 pages.
	
Amaroli, A., et al. (2006). "Effects of a 50 Hz magnetic field on Dictyostelium discoideum (Protista)." Bioelectromagnetics 27: 528-534.
	
Alexander, S., et al. (2006). "Dictyostelium discoideum to human cells: Pharmacogenetic studies demonstrate a role for sphingolipids in chemoresistance." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1760: 301-309.
	
Alber, M., et al. (2006). "Multiscale dynamics of biological cells with chemotactic interactions from a discrete stochastic model to a continuous description." Phys. Rev. E 73:051901: 11 pages.
	
Ahmed, A. U., et al. (2006). "Import-associated translational inhibition novel in vivo evidence for cotranslational protein import into Dictyostelium discoideum mitochondria." Euk. Cell 5: 1314-1327.
	
Adley, K. E., et al. (2006). "Pharmacogenetics: defining the genetic basis of drug action and inositol trisphosphate analysis." Meth. Mol. Biol. 346: 517-534.
	
(2006). When the going gets tough, slime molds start synthesizing. Salk Inst. Biol. Studies. August: 3 pages.
	
Zouwail, S., et al. (2005). "Phospholipase D activity is essential for actin localization and actin-based motility in Dictyostelium." Biochem. J. 389: 207-214.
	
Zhang, W. D. and D. N. Robinson (2005). "Balance of actively generated contractile and resistive forces controls cytokinesis dynamics." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 102: 7186-7191.
	
Zhang, M. H., et al. (2005). "Constitutively active G protein-coupled receptor mutants block Dictyostelium development." Mol. Biol. Cell 16: 562-572.
	
Zhang, H. Y., et al. (2005). "Inorganic polyphosphate in Dictyostelium discoideum: Influence on development, sporulation, and predation." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 102: 2731-2735.
	
Zhang, H. (2005). Several independent signal transduction pathways emanating from different phases of a natural cAMP wave play important roles in regulating Dictyostelium chemotaxis. Iowa City, IA, The University of Iowa: 276.
	
Yusof, A. M., et al. (2005). "Structural evidence for variable oligomerization of the N- terminal domain of cyclase-associated protein (CAP)." Prot. Struct. Funct. Bioinf. 58: 255-262.
	
Yumura, S., et al. (2005). "Multiple myosin II heavy chain kinases: roles in filament assembly control and proper cytokinesis in Dictyostelium." Mol. Biol. Cell 16: 4256-4266.
	
Yamaguchi, H., et al. (2005). "Changes in spatial and temporal localization of Dictyostelium homologues of TRAP1 and GRP94 revealed by immunoelectron microscopy." Exp. Cell Res. 303: 415-424.
	
Yamada, Y., et al. (2005). "Novel patterns of the gene expression regulation in the prestalk region along the antero-posterior axis during multicellular development of Dictyostelium." Gene Expr. Patterns. 6: 63-68.
	
Xu, X. H., et al. (2005). "Quantitative imaging of single live cells reveals spatiotemporal dynamics of multistep signaling events of chemoattractant gradient sensing in Dictyostelium." Mol. Biol. Cell 16: 676-688.
	
Xu, Q. and G. Shaulsky (2005). "GOAT: an R tool for analysing gene ontology." Appl. Bioinformatics 4: 281-283.
	
Winckler, T., et al. (2005). "Transfer RNA gene-targeted integration: an adaptation of retrotransposable elements to survive in the compact Dictyostelium discoideum genome." Cytogenet. Genome Res. 110: 288-298.
	
Williams, R. S. B. (2005). "Pharmacogenetics in model systems: defining a common mechanism of action for mood stabilisers." Progr. Neuro Psychopharmacol. Biol. Psychiatry 29: 1029-1037.
	
Williams, J. G., et al. (2005). "Manifestations of multicellularity: Dictyostelium reports in." Trends Genet. (TIG) 21: 392-398.
	
Wilkins, A., et al. (2005). "The Dictyostelium genome encodes numerous RasGEFs with multiple biological roles." Genome Biol. 6:r68: 12 pages.
	
Wiles, N. (2005). Identification of regulatory binding sites and corresponding transcription factors involved in the developmental control of 5'-nucleotidase expression in Dictyostelium discoideum. Blacksburg, VA, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University: 220.
	
Wilczynska, Z., et al. (2005). "Release of Ca(2+) from the endoplasmic reticulum contributes to Ca(2+) signaling in Dictyostelium discoideum." Euk. Cell 4: 1513-1525.
	
West, C. M., et al. (2005). Ch. 10 - Glycosyltransferase genomics in Dictyostelium discoideum. Dictyostelium Genomics. W. F. Loomis and A. Kuspa. Wymondham, UK, Horizon Bioscience: 235-264.
	
Weissenmayer, B., et al. (2005). "The calcineurin inhibitor gossypol impairs growth, cell signalling and development in Dictyostelium discoideum." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 242: 19-25.
	
Weeks, G., et al. (2005). Ch. 8 - The small GTPase superfamily. Dictyostelium Genomics. W. F. Loomis and A. Kuspa. Wymondham, UK, Horizon Bioscience: 173-210.
	
Weber, I. (2005). "Receptor occupancy on an ellipsoidal cell in the presence of a point source of a chemoattractant." J. Chem. Inf. Model. 45: 1647-1651.
	
Weber, I. (2005). "Cryoelectron tomography: implications for actin cytoskeleton research." Croat. Chem. Acta 78: 325-331.
	
Veltman, D. M., et al. (2005). "Activation of soluble guanylyl cyclase at the leading edge during Dictyostelium chemotaxis." Mol. Biol. Cell 16: 976-983.
	
Van Driessche, N., et al. (2005). "Epistasis analysis with global transcriptional phenotypes." Nature Genet. 37: 471-477.
	
van der Wel, H., et al. (2005). "The Skp1 prolyl hydroxylase from Dictyostelium is related to the hypoxia-inducible factor-alpha class of animal prolyl 4- hydroxylases." J. Biol. Chem. 280: 14645-14655.
	
Urushihara, H. (2005). "[Genome analysis of the model organism Dictyostelium discoideum]." Tanpakushitsu Kakusan Koso 50: 1674-1678.
	
Urushihara, H. (2005). "[Genetic network controlling cell differentiation in Dictyostelium]." Tanpakushitsu Kakusan Koso 50: 2219-2224.
	
Tuxworth, R. I., et al. (2005). "Identification of a myosin VII-Talin complex." J. Biol. Chem. 280: 26557-26564.
	
Titus, M. A. (2005). A treasure trove of motors. Nature. 436: 1097-1099.
	
Tekinay, T. (2005). Mechanisms of regulation of autophagy in Dictyostelium discoideum. New York, NY, Columbia University: 158.
	
Szafranski, K., et al. (2005). "Gene organization features in A/T-rich organisms." J. Mol. Evol. 60: 90-98.
	
Swanson, A. R. (2005). Biogeography and ecology of Hawaiian dictyostelid slime molds. Little Rock, AR, University of Arkansas: 180.
	
Sultana, H., et al. (2005). "Cyclase-associated protein is essential for the functioning of the endo-lysosomal system and provides a link to the actin cytoskeleton." Traffic 6: 930-946.
	
Sugden, C. J., et al. (2005). "Engineered gene over-expression as a method of drug target identification." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 334: 555-560.
	
Strmecki, L., et al. (2005). "Developmental decisions in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 284: 25-36.
	
Sternfeld, J. and R. O'Mara (2005). "Aerial migration of the Dictyostelium slug." Devel. Growth Differ. 47: 49-58.
	
Stepanovic, V., et al. (2005). "Intracellular role of adenylyl cyclase in regulation of lateral pseudopod formation during Dictyostelium chemotaxis." Euk. Cell 4: 775-786.
	
Steinert, M. and K. Heuner (2005). "Dictyostelium as host model for pathogenesis." Cell. Microbiol 7: 307-314.
	
Stegner, A. L. (2005). Drug resistance in Dictyostelium discoideum: isolation of 4-nitroquinoline 1-oxide resistant mutants. Columbia, MO, University of Missouri - Columbia: 66.
	
Sperisen, P., et al. (2005). "Stealth proteins in silico identification of a novel protein family rendering bacterial pathogens invisible to host immune defense." PLoS Comput. Biol. 1: e63.
	
Song, J., et al. (2005). "Comparing the Dictyostelium and Entamoeba genomes reveals an ancient split in the Conosa lineage." PLoS Comput. Biol. 1: e71.
	
Skupsky, R., et al. (2005). "Distinguishing modes of eukaryotic gradient sensing." Biophys J. 89: 2806-2823.
	
Siddique, M. S. P., et al. (2005). "Cooperative structural change of actin filaments interacting with activated myosin motor domain, detected with copolymers of pyrene-labeled actin and acto-S1 chimera protein." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 337: 1185-1191.
	
Siddique, M. S. P., et al. (2005). "Evidence against essential roles for subdomain 1 of actin in actomyosin sliding movements." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 332: 474-481.
	
Shu, S., et al. (2005). "Blebbistatin and blebbistatin-inactivated myosin II inhibit myosin II-independent processes in Dictyostelium." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 102: 1472-1477.
	
Shrimali, R. K., et al. (2005). "Selenocysteine tRNA identification in the model organisms Dictyostelium discoideum and Tetrahymena thermophila." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 329: 147-151.
	
Shimada, N., et al. (2005). "Evidence that the Dictyostelium STAT protein Dd-STATa plays a role in the differentiation of inner basal disc cells and identification of a promoter element essential for expression in these cells." Differentiation 73: 50-60.
	
Shaulsky, G. and E. Huang (2005). Ch. 5 - Components of the Dictyostelium gene expression regulatory machinery. Dictyostelium Genomics. W. F. Loomis and A. Kuspa. Wymondham, UK, Horizon Bioscience: 1-22.
	
Serafimidis, I. and R. R. Kay (2005). "New prestalk and prespore inducing signals in Dictyostelium." Dev. Biol. 282: 432-441.
	
Senetar, M. A. and R. O. McCann (2005). "Gene duplication and functional divergence during evolution of the cytoskeletal linker protein talin." Gene 362: 141-152.
	
Seethaler, S. (2005). Social amoeba sheds light on communication in human brain. UCSD News. May 16: 2 pages.
	
Sebestikova, L., et al. (2005). "Control of wave propagation in a biological excitable medium by an external electric field." Biophys. Chem. 113: 269-274.
	
Schlierf, M. and M. Rief (2005). "Temperature softening of a protein in single-molecule experiments." J. Mol. Biol. 354: 497-503.
	
Schirenbeck, A., et al. (2005). "The Diaphanous-related formin dDia2 is required for the formation and maintenance of filopodia." Nature Cell Biol. 7: 619-U624.
	
Schirenbeck, A., et al. (2005). "Formins and VASPs may co-operate in the formation of filopodia." Bioch. Soc. Trans. 33: 1256-1259.
	
Schindel, E. T. (2005). Editing of mitochondrial tRNAs in Polysphondylium pallidum. Halifax, NS (Canada), Dalhousie University: 104.
	
Schaloske, R. H., et al. (2005). "Ca2+ regulation in the absence of the iplA gene product in Dictyostelium discoideum." BMC Cell Biol. 6:13: 17 pages.
	
Schaap, P. (2005). "Guanylyl cyclases across the tree of life." Front. Biosci. 10: 1485-1498.
	
Scala, C. (2005). Polymorphism of microsatellites in coding regions of Dictyostelium discoideum. Houston, TX, Rice University: 84.
	
Sawai, S., et al. (2005). "An autoregulatory circuit for long-range self-organization in Dictyostelium cell populations." Nature 433: 323-326.
	
Sakuragi, N., et al. (2005). "Functional analysis of a novel gene, DD3-3, from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 331: 1201-1206.
	
Saito, T., et al. (2005). "Temperature adaptation in Dictyostelium: role of Delta5 fatty acid desaturase." Microbiology SGM 151: 113-119.
	
Rybakin, V. and C. S. Clemen (2005). "Coronin proteins as multifunctional regulators of the cytoskeleton and membrane trafficking." Bioessays 27: 625-632.
	
Ruchira (2005). Dictyostelium chemotaxis studied with fluorescence fluctuation spectroscopy. Wageningen, Netherlands, Wageningen Universiteit: 118.
	
Rivero, F., et al. (2005). "A comparative sequence analysis reveals a common GBD/FH3-FHI-FH2-DAD architecture in formins from Dictyostelium, fungi and metazoa." BMC Genomics 6:28: 16 pages.
	
Rivero, F. and L. Eichinger (2005). Ch. 7 - The microfilament system of Dictyostelium discoideum. Dictyostelium Genomics. W. F. Loomis and A. Kuspa. Wymondham, UK, Horizon Bioscience: 125-172.
	
Rieu, J. P., et al. (2005). "Direct mechanical force measurements during the migration of Dictyostelium slugs using flexible substrata." Biophys. J. 89: 3563-3576.
	
Richards, T. A. and T. Cavalier-Smith (2005). "Myosin domain evolution and the primary divergence of eukaryotes." Nature 436: 1113-1118.
	
Reichl, E. M., et al. (2005). "The stress and strain of cytokinesis." Trends Cell Biol. 15: 200-206.
	
Rehberg, M., et al. (2005). "Dictyostelium LIS1 is a centrosomal protein required for microtubule/cell cortex interactions, nucleus/centrosome linkage, and actin dynamics." Mol. Biol. Cell 16: 2759-2771.
	
Preston, T. M. and C. A. King (2005). "Actin-based motility in the net slime mould Labyrinthula evidence for the role of myosin in gliding movement." J. Euk. Microbiol. 52: 461-475.
	
Polezhaev, A. A., et al. (2005). "Transition from an excitable to an oscillatory state in Dictyostelium discoideum." Syst. Biol. (Stevenage) 152: 75-79.
	
Pikzack, C., et al. (2005). "Role of calcium-dependent actin-bundling proteins: characterization of Dictyostelium mutants lacking fimbrin and the 34-kilodalton protein." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 62: 210-231.
	
Payne, S. H. (2005). Ch. 3 - Metabolic pathways. Dictyostelium Genomics. W. F. Loomis and A. Kuspa. Wymondham, UK, Horizon Bioscience: 41-58.
	
Patel, H. and D. L. Barber (2005). "A developmentally regulated Na-H exchanger in Dictyostelium discoideum is necessary for cell polarity during chemotaxis." J. Cell Biol. 169: 321-329.
	
Otto, H., et al. (2005). "In silico characterization of the family of PARP-like poly(ADP-ribosyl)transferases (pARTs)." BMC Genomics 6:139: 23 pages.
	
Ostroski, M., et al. (2005). "Analysis of a novel diacylglycerol kinase from Dictyostelium discoideum: DGKA." Biochemistry 44: 10199-10207.
	
Olsen, R. M. (2005). Ch. 11 - How many protein encoding genes does Dictyostelium discoideum have? Dictyostelium Genomics. W. F. Loomis and A. Kuspa. Wymondham, UK, Horizon Bioscience: 265-278.
	
Olsen, R. and W. F. Loomis (2005). "A collection of amino acid replacement matrices derived from clusters of orthologs." J. Mol. Evol. 61: 659-665.
	
Ohkouchi, S., et al. (2005). "Dictyostelium discoideum requires an Alix/AIP1 homolog, DdAlix, for morphogenesis in alkaline environments." FEBS Lett. 579: 1745-1750.
	
O'Day, D. H., et al. (2005). "Isolation and characterization of Dictyostelium thymidine kinase 1 as a calmodulin-binding protein." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 331: 1494-1502.
	
Naude, B., et al. (2005). "Dictyostelium discoideum expresses a malaria chloroquine resistance mechanism upon transfection with mutant, but not wild-type, Plasmodium falciparum transporter PfCRT." J. Biol. Chem. 280: 25596-25603.
	
Myre, M. A. and D. H. O'Day (2005). "An N-terminal nuclear localization sequence but not the calmodulin-binding domain mediates nuclear localization of nucleomorphin, a protein that regulates nuclear number in Dictyostelium." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 332: 157-166.
	
Myre, M. A. (2005). Characterization of nucleomorphin, a novel nuclear breast cancer carboxy-terminal-domain containing calmodulin-binding protein from Dictyostelium discoideum. Toronto, ON (Canada), University of Toronto: 186.
	
Myers, S. A., et al. (2005). "A Dictyostelium homologue of WASP is required for polarized F-actin assembly during chemotaxis." Mol. Biol. Cell 16: 2191-2206.
	
Muramoto, T., et al. (2005). "Reverse genetic analyses of gamete-enriched genes revealed a novel regulator of the cAMP signaling pathway in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mech. Devel. 122: 733-743.
	
Muller, I., et al. (2005). "A Dictyostelium mutant with reduced lysozyme levels compensates by increased phagocytic activity." J. Biol. Chem. 280: 10435-10443.
	
Morita, T., et al. (2005). "Involvement of the TRAP-1 homologue, Dd-TRAP1, in spore differentiation during Dictyostelium development." Exp. Cell Res. 303: 425-431.
	
Mishig-Ochiriin, T., et al. (2005). "Calcium-induced conformational changes of the recombinant CBP3 protein from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1748: 157-164.
	
Min, J. X., et al. (2005). "Sphingosine-1-phosphate lyase regulates sensitivity of human cells to select chemotherapy drugs in a p38-dependent manner." Mol. Cancer Res. 3: 287-296.
	
Min, J., et al. (2005). "Sphingosine kinase regulates the sensitivity of Dictyostelium discoideum cells to the anticancer drug cisplatin." Euk. Cell 4: 178-189.
	
Mendoza, M. C., et al. (2005). "Loss of SMEK, a novel, conserved protein, suppresses mek1 null cell polarity, chemotaxis, and gene expression defects." Mol. Cell. Biol. 25: 7839-7853.
	
Mendoza, M. C. (2005). Dysregulated PP4C/PP4R2/SMEK phosphatase activity mediates the Dictyostelium mek1(-) defects in cell polarization, chemotaxis, and gene expression. San Diego, CA, University of California, San Diego: 117.
	
Meima, M. E. (2005). Cyclic nucleotide metabolism and function in Dictyostelium discoideum. Leiden, Netherlands, Universiteit Leiden: 131.
	
McDonald, K. (2005). Biologists determine genetic blueprint of social amoeba. UCSD News. May 4: 3 pages.
	
Mayanagi, T., et al. (2005). "DNG1, a Dictyostelium homologue of tumor suppressor ING1 regulates differentiation of Dictyostelium cells." Cell. Mol. Life Sci. 62: 1734- 1743.
	
Mattei, S., et al. (2005). "Dd-Alix, a conserved endosome-associated protein, controls Dictyostelium development." Dev. Biol. 279: 99-113.
	
Maeda, Y. (2005). "Regulation of growth and development in Dictyostelium." Int. Rev. Cytol. 244: 287-332.
	
Lusche, D. F. and D. Malchow (2005). "Developmental control of cAMP-induced Ca2+-influx by cGMP: influx is delayed and reduced in a cGMP-phosphodiesterase D deficient mutant of Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Calcium 37: 57-67.
	
Lusche, D. F., et al. (2005). "cGMP-phosphodiesterase antagonists inhibit Ca2+-influx in Dictyostelium discoideum and bovine cyclic-nucleotide-gated- channel." Eur. J. Pharmacol. 513: 9-20.
	
Lusche, D. F., et al. (2005). "cAMP controls cytosolic Ca2+ levels in Dictyostelium discoideum." BMC Cell Biol. 6:12: 12 pages.
	
Lu, H. and M. Clarke (2005). "Dynamic properties of Legionella-containing phagosomes in Dictyostelium amoebae." Cell. Microbiol. 7: 995-1007.
	
Loovers, H. M. (2005). Phosphoinositides and inositol 5-phosphatases in Dictyostelium discoideum. Groningen, Netherlands, RU Groningen: 119.
	
Loomis, W. F. and A. Kuspa (2005). Dictyostelium Genomics. Wymondham, UK, Francis & Taylor (Horizon Bioscience).
	
Loomis, W. F. (2005). Ch. 1 - Mapping and sequencing the Dictyostelium genome. Dictyostelium Genomics. W. F. Loomis and A. Kuspa. Wymondham, UK, Horizon Bioscience: 1-22.
	
Liu, X., et al. (2005). "Biological, biochemical, and kinetic effects of mutations of the cardiomyopathy loop of Dictyostelium myosin II - Importance of ALA(400)." J. Biol. Chem. 280: 26974-26983.
	
Liu, C. I., et al. (2005). "LrrA, a novel leucine-rich repeat protein involved in cytoskeleton remodeling, is required for multicellular morphogenesis in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 285: 238-251.
	
Lim, C. J., et al. (2005). "Loss of the Dictyostelium RasC protein alters vegetative cell size, motility and endocytosis." Exp. Cell Res. 306: 47-55.
	
Li, Z. R., et al. (2005). "Dictyostelium discoideum strains lacking the RtoA protein are defective for maturation of the Legionella pneumophila replication vacuole." Cell. Microbiol. 7: 431-442.
	
Lee, S., et al. (2005). "TOR complex 2 integrates cell movement during chemotaxis and signal relay in Dictyostelium." Mol. Biol. Cell 16: 4572-4583.
	
Lee, C. H., et al. (2005). "Dictyostelium CBP3 associates with actin cytoskeleton and is related to slug migration." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1743: 281-290.
	
Lardy, B., et al. (2005). "NADPH oxidase homologs are required for normal cell differentiation and morphogenesis in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1744: 199-212.
	
Landolt, J. C., et al. (2005). Cellular slime molds in Ozark caves. Arkansas Acad. Sci. Annu. Meeting, 2005.
	
Ladam, G., et al. (2005). "Protrusion force transmission of amoeboid cells crawling on soft biological tissue." Acta Biomater. 1: 485-497.
	
Kuspa, A. (2005). Ch. 12 - Whole-genome functional analyses in Dictyostelium. Dictyostelium Genomics. W. F. Loomis and A. Kuspa. Wymondham, UK, Horizon Bioscience: 279-296.
	
Kuhlmann, M., et al. (2005). "Silencing of retrotransposons in Dictyostelium by DNA methylation and RNAi." Nucl. Acids Res. 33: 6405-6417.
	
Krishnan, J. and P. A. Iglesias (2005). "A modelling framework describing the enzyme regulation of membrane lipids underlying gradient perception in Dictyostelium cells II: Input-output analysis." J. Theor. Biol. 235: 504-520.
	
Kolbinger, A., et al. (2005). "A cysteine-rich extracellular protein containing a PA14 domain mediates quorum sensing in Dictyostelium discoideum." Euk. Cell 4: 991-998.
	
Knol, J. C., et al. (2005). "The phosducin-like protein PhLP1 is essential for G beta gamma dimer formation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cell. Biol. 25: 8393-8400.
	
Kirsten, J. H., et al. (2005). "Ammonium transporter C of Dictyostelium discoideum is required for correct prestalk gene expression and for regulating the choice between slug migration and culmination." Dev. Biol. 287: 146-156.
	
Kimmel, A. R. (2005). Ch. 9 - The Dictyostelium kinome: protein kinase signalling pathways that regulate growth and development. Dictyostelium Genomics. W. F. Loomis and A. Kuspa. Wymondham, UK, Horizon Bioscience: 211-234.
	
Kim, B. J., et al. (2005). "Glutathione is required for growth and prespore cell differentiation in Dictyostelium." Dev. Biol. 284: 387-398.
	
Kikuchi, H., et al. (2005). "Isolation and synthesis of a new aromatic compound, brefelamide, from Dictyostelium cellular slime molds and its inhibitory effect on the proliferation of astrocytoma cells." J. Org. Chem. 70: 8854-8858.
	
Khurana, T., et al. (2005). "A Rab21/LIM-only/CH-LIM complex regulates phagocytosis via both activating and inhibitory mechanisms." EMBO J. 24: 2254-2264.
	
Khosla, M., et al. (2005). "The effect of the disruption of a gene encoding a PI4 kinase on the developmental defect exhibited by Dictyostelium rasC- cells." Dev. Biol. 284: 412-420.
	
Kessin, R. (2005). Starving well. P&S. 25: 32-33.
	
Jang, W. and R. H. Gomer (2005). "Exposure of cells to a cell number-counting factor decreases the activity of glucose-6-phosphatase to decrease intracellular glucose levels in Dictyostelium discoideum." Euk. Cell 4: 72-81.
	
Janetopoulos, C., et al. (2005). "Temporal and spatial regulation of phosphoinositide signaling mediates cytokinesis." Dev. Cell 8: 467-477.
	
Jabbarzadeh, E. and C. F. Abrams (2005). "Chemotaxis and random motility in unsteady chemoattractant fields: a computational study." J. Theor. Biol. 235: 221-232.
	
Iwane, A. H., et al. (2005). "The neck domain of myosin II primarily regulates the actomyosin kinetics, not the stepsize." J. Mol. Biol. 353: 213-221.
	
Ishida, K., et al. (2005). "Gamete fusion and cytokinesis preceding zygote establishment in the sexual process of Dictyostelium discoideum." Devel. Growth Differ. 47: 25-35.
	
Irvine, R. F. (2005). "Inositide evolution - towards turtle domination?" J. Physiol. 566: 295-300.
	
Insall, R. (2005). "The Dictyostelium genome: the private life of a social model revealed?" Genome Biol. 6:222: 4 pages.
	
Ibarra, N., et al. (2005). "Regulation of actin assembly by SCAR/WAVE proteins." Biochem. Soc. Trans. 33: 1243-1246.
	
Hudson, J., et al. (2005). "DNA-PKcs-dependent signaling of DNA damage in Dictyostelium discoideum." Curr. Biol. 15: 1880-1885.
	
Holden, M., et al. (2005). "Genome watch - Food for thought." Nature Rev. Microbiol. 3: 912-913.
	
Hirose, S., et al. (2005). "Transcriptional switch of the dia1 and impA promoter during the growth/differentiation transition." Euk. Cell 4: 1477-1482.
	
Hereld, D. (2005). Ch. 6 - Signal transduction via G-protein-coupled receptors, trimeric G proteins, and RGS proteins. Dictyostelium Genomics. W. F. Loomis and A. Kuspa. Wymondham, UK, Horizon Bioscience: 103-124.
	
Heid, P. J., et al. (2005). "Computer-assisted analysis of filopod formation and the role of myosin II heavy chain phosphorylation in Dictyostelium." J. Cell Sci. 118: 2225-2237.
	
Hagiwara, H., et al. (2005). "A mating group newly found in the subtropical form of Ddictyostelium purpureum Olive." Bull. Natl. Sci. Mus. Tokyo, Ser. B 31: 5-9.
	
Gundersen, R. E., et al. (2005). "Loss-of-function mutations identified in the Helical domain of the G protein alpha-subunit, G alpha 2, of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1722: 262-270.
	
Graf, R., et al. (2005). "Live cell spinning disk microscopy." Adv. Biochem. Engin./Biotechnol. 95: 57-75.
	
Golstein, P. and G. Kroemer (2005). "Redundant cell death mechanisms as relics and backups." Cell Death Differ. 12: 1490-1496.
	
Gokan, N., et al. (2005). "Structural requirements of Dictyostelium differentiation-inducing factors for their stalk-cell-inducing activity in Dictyostelium cells and anti-proliferative activity in K562 human leukemic cells." Biochem. Pharmacol. 70: 676-685.
	
Gerisch, G. and M. Ecke (2005). Section II. Specific chemical reagents. Ch. 4 Chemotaxis of aggregating Dictyostelium cells. Key Experiments in Practical Developmental Biology. M. Mari-Beffa and J. Knight. Cambridge, UK, Cambridge Univ. Press: 50-66.
	
Geeves, M. A., et al. (2005). "Molecular mechanism of actomyosin-based motility." Cell. Mol. Life Sci. 62: 1462- 1477.
	
Galperin, M. Y. (2005). "To finish or not to finish?" Envir. Microbiol. 7: 1061-1064.
	
Fujita-Becker, S., et al. (2005). "Changes in Mg2+ ion concentration and heavy chain phosphorylation regulate the motor activity of a class I myosin." J. Biol. Chem. 280: 6064-6071.
	
Fisher, P. R. (2005). Microbial development. Encyclopedia of molecular cell biology and molecular medicine. R. A. Meyers. Weinheim, Wiley-VCH. 8: 289-342.
	
Fischer, S., et al. (2005). "Structural mechanism of the recovery stroke in the myosin molecular motor." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 102: 6873-6878.
	
Felder, M., et al. (2005). "DictyMOLD - a Dictyostelium discoideum genome browser database." Bioinformatics 21: 696-697.
	
Fache, S., et al. (2005). "Calcium mobilization stimulates Dictyostelium discoideum shear-flow-induced cell motility." J. Cell Sci. 118: 3445-3457.
	
Ercan, A. and C. M. West (2005). "Kinetic analysis of a Golgi UDP-GlcNAc:polypeptide-Thr/Ser N- acetyl-alpha-glucosaminyltransferase from Dictyostelium." Glycobiology 15: 489-500.
	
El-Halawany, M. S., et al. (2005). "Reevaluation of the predicted gene structure of Dictyostelium cystatin A3 (cpiC) by nucleotide sequence determination of its cDNA* and its phylogenetic position in the cystatin superfamily." Mol. Biol. Reports 32: 257-264.
	
Eickholt, B. J., et al. (2005). "Effects of valproic acid derivatives on inositol trisphosphate depletion, teratogenicity, glycogen synthase kinase-3beta inhibition, and viral replication: a screening approach for new bipolar disorder drugs derived from the valproic acid core structure." Mol. Pharmacol. 67: 1426-1433.
	
Eichinger, L., et al. (2005). "The genome of the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum." Nature 435: 43-57.
	
Eichinger, L. and A. A. Noegel (2005). "Comparative genomics of Dictyostelium discoideum and Entamoeba histolytica." Curr. Opin. Microbiol. 8: 606-611.
	
Egelhoff, T. T., et al. (2005). "Actin activation of myosin heavy chain kinase A in Dictyostelium - A biochemical mechanism for the spatial regulation of myosin II filament disassembly." J. Biol. Chem. 280: 2879-2887.
	
Duleh, S. N., et al. (2005). "Morphological and functional analysis of Rac1B in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Electron Microsc. 54: 519-528.
	
Dolak, Y. and C. Schmeiser (2005). "Kinetic models for chemotaxis: hydrodynamic limits and spatio-temporal mechanisms." J. Math. Biol. 51: 595-615.
	
Diez, S., et al. (2005). "Subsecond reorganization of the actin network in cell motility and chemotaxis." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 102: 7601-7606.
	
Desjardins, M., et al. (2005). "Phagocytosis: the convoluted way from nutrition to adaptive immunity." Immunol. Rev. 207: 158-165.
	
de la Roche, M., et al. (2005). "Cellular distribution and functions of wild-type and constitutively activated Dictyostelium PakB." Mol. Biol. Cell 16: 238-247.
	
Damer, C. K., et al. (2005). "Copine A, a calcium-dependent membrane-binding protein, transiently localizes to the plasma membrane and intracellular vacuoles in Dictyostelium." BMC Cell Biol. 6:46: 18 pages.
	
Curk, T., et al. (2005). "Microarray data mining with visual programming." Bioinformatics 21: 396-398.
	
Comer, F. I., et al. (2005). "The PI3K-mediated activation of CRAC independently regulates adenylyl cyclase activation and chemotaxis." Curr. Biol. 15: 134-139.
	
Choi, Y. K., et al. (2005). "D-threo-tetrahydrobiopterin is synthesized via 1'-oxo-2'-D-hydroxypropyl-tetrahydropterin in Dictyostelium discoideum Ax2." FEBS Lett. 579: 3085-3089.
	
Chisholm, R. L. (2005). Ch. 2 - dictyBase: using the genome to organize Dictyostelium biology. Dictyostelium Genomics. W. F. Loomis and A. Kuspa. Wymondham, UK, Horizon Bioscience: 23-40.
	
Chia, C. P., et al. (2005). "Glycoprotein gp130 of Dictyostelium discoideum influences macropinocytosis and adhesion." Mol. Biol. Cell 16: 2681-2693.
	
Chen, Y., et al. (2005). "PldB, a putative phospholipase D homologue in Dictyostelium discoideum mediates quorum sensing during development." Euk. Cell 4: 694-702.
	
Chen, Y., et al. (2005). "Adenosine phosphonoacetic acid is slowly metabolized by NDP kinase." Med. Chem. 1: 529-536.
	
Chen, G. and A. Kuspa (2005). "Prespore cell fate bias in G1 phase of the cell cycle in Dictyostelium discoideum." Euk. Cell 4: 1755-1764.
	
Chen, B. S., et al. (2005). "A new measure of the robustness of biochemical networks." Bioinformatics 21: 2698-2705.
	
Cavender, J. C., et al. (2005). "New species of small dictyostelids from the Great Smoky Mountains National Park." Mycologia 97: 493-512.
	
Castillo, D. I., et al. (2005). "A cost to chimerism in Dictyostelium discoideum on natural substrates." Evol. Ecol. Res. 7: 263-271.
	
Bukharova, T., et al. (2005). "Paxillin is required for cell-substrate adhesion, cell sorting and slug migration during Dictyostelium development." J. Cell Sci. 118: 4295-4310.
	
Brock, D. A. and R. H. Gomer (2005). "A secreted factor represses cell proliferation in Dictyostelium." Development 132: 4553-4562.
	
Brito, D. A., et al. (2005). "Pushing forces drive the comet-like motility of microtubule arrays in Dictyostelium." Mol. Biol. Cell 16: 3334-3340.
	
Brannstrom, A. and U. Dieckmann (2005). "Evolutionary dynamics of altruism and cheating among social amoebas." Proc. R. Soc. Lond. B 272: 1609-1616.
	
Bosgraaf, L., et al. (2005). "RasGEF-containing proteins GbpC and GbpD have differential effects on cell polarity and chemotaxis in Dictyostelium." J. Cell Sci. 118: 1899-1910.
	
Booth, E. O., et al. (2005). "Microarray phenotyping in Dictyostelium reveals a regulon of chemotaxis genes." Bioinformatics 21: 4371-4377.
	
Bonner, J. T. and D. S. Lamont (2005). "Behavior of cellular slime molds in the soil." Mycologia 97: 178-184.
	
Block, W. D. and S. P. Lees-Miller (2005). "Putative homologues of the DNA-dependent protein kinase catalytic subunit (DNA-PKcs) and other components of the non-homologous end joining machinery in Dictyostelium discoideum." DNA Repair (Amst) 4: 1061-1065.
	
Blanc, C., et al. (2005). "A novel phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate-binding domain targeting the Phg2 kinase to the membrane in Dictyostelium cells." Eur. J. Cell Biol. 84: 951-960.
	
Betapudi, V., et al. (2005). "Identification and characterization of a novel alpha-kinase with a von Willebrand factor A-like motif localized to the contractile vacuole and Golgi complex in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Biol. Cell 16: 2248-2262.
	
Bapteste, E., et al. (2005). "Do orthologous gene phylogenies really support tree-thinking?" BMC Evol. Biol. 5:33: 10 pages.
	
Austin, M. B. (2005). Structural and mechanistic determinants of biosynthetic functional diversity in the type III polyketide synthase superfamily. San Diego, CA, Ucsd: 268.
	
Arigoni, M., et al. (2005). "A novel Dictyostelium RasGEF required for chemotaxis and development." BMC Cell Biol. 6:43: 18 pages.
	
Arai, A., et al. (2005). "Dictyopyrones, novel alpha-pyronoids isolated from Dictyostelium spp., promote stalk cell differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 73: 377-384.
	
Anjard, C. and W. F. Loomis (2005). "Peptide signaling during terminal differentiation of Dictyostelium." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 102: 7607-7611.
	
Anjard, C. (2005). Ch. 4 - Multigene families of Dictyostelium. Dictyostelium Genomics. W. F. Loomis and A. Kuspa. Wymondham, UK, Horizon Bioscience: 59-82.
	
Amaroli, A., et al. (2005). "Effects of time-variant extremely low-frequency (ELF) electromagnetic fields (EMF) on cholinesterase activity in Dictyostelium discoideum (Protista)." Chem. Biol. Interact. 157-158: 355-356.
	
Alvarez-Curto, E., et al. (2005). "Evolutionary origin of cAMP-based chemoattraction in the social amoebae." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 102: 6385-6390.
	
Alexander, H. and S. Alexander (2005). Methods of screening novel agents for use in cancer therapy and prevention, The Curators of The University of Missouri (Columbia, MO). 863670: 19.
	
Affolter, M. and C. J. Weijer (2005). "Signaling to cytoskeletal dynamics during chemotaxis." Dev. Cell 9: 19-34.
	
(2005). The constitution of a new model army. Genome basis of working together for a common good. Sanger Inst.: 3 pages.
	
Zhukovskaya, N. V., et al. (2004). "Dd-STATb, a Dictyostelium STAT protein with a highly aberrant SH2 domain, functions as a regulator of gene expression during growth and early development." Development 131: 447-458.
	
Zeng, W., et al. (2004). "Dynamics of actomyosin interactions in relation to the cross- bridge cycle." Phil. Trans. R. Soc. Lond. B 359: 1843-1855.
	
Yoda, H., et al. (2004). "Novel and stereoselective asymmetric synthesis of an amino sugar analogue, furanodictine A." Tetrahedron Lett. 45(8): 1599-1601.
	A novel and efficient strategy is described for the asymmetric synthesis of the first 3,6-anhydrosugar to be isolated from natural sources, furanodictine A. The synthetic process is based on requisite stereodefined manipulation of the functionalized amino alcohol obtained through nucleophilic addition of vinyl Grignard reagent to the aminal incorporating the d-arabinofuranose-derived skeleton in a complete stereoselective manner.

Yeh, Z. Y. and M. J. Chen (2004). "Notes on dictyostelid cellular slime molds from Taiwan (2): Dictyostelium exiguum and its ITS-5.8S rDNA sequences." Mycotaxon 89: 489-496.
	
Yamada, Y. and M. Sameshima (2004). "Cell shape regulation and co-translocation of actin and adenosyl homocysteinase in response to intermediate hypertonicity." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 238: 417-422.
	
Xu, Q., et al. (2004). "Transcriptional transitions during Dictyostelium spore germination." Euk. Cell 3: 1101-1110.
	
Wu, W. I., et al. (2004). "Structure-function analysis of the BEACH protein LvsA." Traffic 5: 346-355.
	
Winckler, T., et al. (2004). "CbfA, the C-module DNA-binding factor, plays an essential role in the initiation of Dictyostelium discoideum development." Euk. Cell 3: 1349-1358.
	
West, C. M., et al. (2004). "Cytoplasmic glycosylation of protein-hydroxyproline and its relationship to other glycosylation pathways." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1673: 29-44.
	
Wessels, D., et al. (2004). "RasC plays a role in transduction of temporal gradient information in the cylic-AMP wave of Dictyostelium discoideum." Euk. Cell 3: 646-662.
	
Weijer, C. J. (2004). "Dictyostellium morphogenesis." Curr. Opin. Genet. Devel. 14: 392-398.
	
Wada, F., et al. (2004). "Analyses of expression and localization of two mammalian- type transglutaminases in Physarum polycephalum, an acellular slime mold." J. Biochem. 136: 665-672.
	
Veltman, D. M., et al. (2004). "Unusual guanylyl cyclases and cGMP signaling in Dictyostelium discoideum." Vitam. Horm. 69: 95-115.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M. and P. N. Devreotes (2004). "Chemotaxis: signalling the way forward." Nature Rev. Mol. Cell Biol. 5: 626-634.
	
van Dijk, J., et al. (2004). "Conformational changes in actin-myosin isoforms probed by Ni(II).Gly-Gly-His reactivity." J. Muscle Res. Cell Motil. 25: 527- 537.
	
Uyeda, T. Q. P. and A. Nagasaki (2004). Variations on a theme: the many modes of cytokinesis. Curr. Opin. Cell Biol. 16: 55-60.
	
Urushihara, H., et al. (2004). "Analyses of cDNAs from growth and slug stages of Dictyostelium discoideum." Nucl. Acids Res. 32: 1647-1653.
	
Umeda, T. and K. Inouye (2004). "Cell sorting by differential cell motility: a model for pattern formation in Dictyostelium." J. Theor. Biol. 226: 215-224.
	
Uchida, K. S. K. and S. Yumura (2004). "Dynamics of novel feet of Dictyostelium cells during migration." J. Cell Sci. 117: 1443-1455.
	
Tsujioka, M., et al. (2004). "Talin B is required for force transmission in morphogenesis of Dictyostelium." EMBO J. 23: 2216-2225.
	
Tsujioka, M., et al. (2004). "Novel development rescuing factors (DRFs) secreted by the developing Dictyostelium cells, that are involved in the restoration of a mutant lacking MAP-kinase ERK2." Zool. Sci. 21: 829-834.
	
Tsiavaliaris, G., et al. (2004). "Molecular engineering of a backwards-moving myosin motor." Nature 427: 558-561.
	
Tokumitsu, H., et al. (2004). "Regulatory mechanism of Dictyostelium myosin light chain kinase A." J. Biol. Chem. 279: 42-50.
	
Thompson, C. R. L., et al. (2004). "A demonstration of pattern formation without positional information in Dictyostelium." Devel. Growth Differ. 46: 363-369.
	
Thompson, C. R. L., et al. (2004). "A bZIP/bRLZ transcription factor required for DIF signaling in Dictyostelium." Development 131: 513-523.
	
Tekos, A., et al. (2004). "RNase P: A promising molecular target for the development of new drugs." Curr. Medicinal Chem. 11: 2979-2989.
	
Tarabykina, S., et al. (2004). "Alg-2, a multifunctional calcium binding protein?" Front. Biosci. 9: 1817-1832.
	
Tanaka, Y., et al. (2004). Genomic analysis of Dictyostelium discoideum. New developments in genomics and proteomics: analysis and application of bioinformation.: 267-282.
	
Takano, A., et al. (2004). "Expression of genes coding for cell-cell adhesion proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum mutants that form small fruiting bodies." Microbes Envir. 19: 76-78.
	
Szafranski, K., et al. (2004). "Template jumping by a LINE reverse transcriptase has created a SINE-like 5S RNA retropseudogene in Dictyostelium." Mol. Genet. Genomics 271: 98-102.
	
Swanson, A. R., et al. (2004). "Ecological succession of distyostelid slime molds on the island of Hawai'i." Syst. Geogr. Pl. 74: 67-79.
	
Swanson, A. R. (2004). "A guide to the common dictyostelid slime molds of Great Smoky Mountains National Park." The Eumycetozoan Project. (http://slimemold.uark.edu/index.htm: 13 pages.
	
Summerscales, J. and J. F. Dawson (2004). "Probing Dictyostelium severin structure and function by cross linking to actin." Biochem. Cell Biol. 82: 343-350.
	
Suda, H., et al. (2004). "Force generation by recombinant myosin heads trapped between two functionalized surfaces." Eur. Biophys. J. 33: 469-476.
	
Strassmann, J. E. and D. C. Queller (2004). Genetic conflicts and intercellular heterogeneity. J. Evol. Biol. 17: 1189-1191.
	
Strassmann, J. E. and D. C. Queller (2004). "Sociobiology goes micro." ASM News 70: 526-530.
	
Stephenson, S. (2004). Slime mold workshop. ATBI Quarterly. 5(3): 1 page.
	
SpiegelFW, et al. (2004). "A beginners guide to isolating and culturing eumycetozoans." The Eumycetozoan Project (http://slimemold.uark.edu/index.htm): 18 pages.
	
Soler-Lopez, M., et al. (2004). "Structure of an activated Dictyostelium STAT in its DNA-unbound form." Mol. Cell 13: 791-804.
	
Sneiderman, P. (2004). Digital model of amoeba helps scientists study human cells - Undergraduate teams with medical researchers to mimic a microbe's behavior. Headlines Hopkins. May 22: 4 pages.
	
Smith, M. (2004). Genotypic diversity and population structure in Dictyostelium discoideum. Houston, TX, Rice University: 20.
	
Siu, C. H., et al. (2004). "Regulation of cell-cell adhesion during Dictyostelium development." Semin. Cell Dev. Biol. 15: 633-641.
	
Singh, S. R., et al. (2004). "Domainal organization of the lower eukaryotic homologs of the yeast RNA polymerase II core subunit Rpb7 reflects functional conservation." Nucl. Acids Res. 32: 201-210.
	
Silverman, J. (2004). Characterization of pianissimo: a membrane associated factor required for G protein coupled receptor regulation of adenylate cyclase in Dictyostelium discoideum. Baltimore, MD, The Johns Hopkins University: 169.
	
Shimizu, K., et al. (2004). "Calmodulin-dependent cyclic nucleotide phosphdiesterase (PDE1) is a pharmacological target of differentiation-inducing factor-1, an antitumor agent isolated from Dictyostelium." Cancer Res. 64: 2568-2571.
	
Shimada, N., et al. (2004). "Extracellular matrix family proteins that are potential targets of Dd-STATa in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Plant Res. 117: 345-353.
	
Shimada, N., et al. (2004). "Identification of new modes of Dd-STATa regulation of gene expression in Dictyostelium by in situ hybridisation." Int. J. Dev. Biol. 48: 679-682.
	
Secko, D. M., et al. (2004). "The identification of Dictyostelium phosphoproteins altered in response to the activation of RasG." Proteomics 4: 2629-2639.
	
Secko, D. M. (2004). The identification of Dictyostelium phosphoproteins altered in response to the activation of RasG. Vancouver, BC (Canada), The University of British Columbia: 137.
	
Secko, D. (2004). How Legionella manipulates cells. Genome analysis yields proteins implicated in seizure of a protozoan exocytic pathway. The Scientist www.the-scientist.com: February 27.
	
Schwaiger, I., et al. (2004). "A mechanical unfolding intermediate in actin-crosslinking protein." Nature Struct. Mol. Biol. 11: 81-85.
	
Schlatterer, C., et al. (2004). "Cytosolic [Ca2+] transients in Dictyostelium discoideum depend on the filling state of internal stores and on an active sarco/endoplasmic reticulum calcium ATPase (SERCA) Ca2+ pump." J. Biol. Chem. 279: 18407-18414.
	
Schilde, C., et al. (2004). "GSK3 is a multifunctional regulator of Dictyostelium development." Development 131: 4555-4565.
	
Schaap, P. (2004). "Non-metazoan class III nucleotidyl cyclases: novel forms and functions." Iubmb Life 56: 527-528.
	
Sasaki, A. T., et al. (2004). "Localized Ras signaling at the leading edge regulates P13K, cell polarity, and directional cell movement." J. Cell Biol. 167: 505-518.
	
Saran, S. and P. Schaap (2004). "Adenylyl cyclase G is activated by an intramolecular osmosensor." Mol. Biol. Cell 15: 1479-1486.
	
Samadani, A. and A. van Oudenaarden (2004). "Chemotaxis in microchannels." The Spectrograph 20(2): 4-10.
	
Ruchira, et al. (2004). "Pleckstrin homology domain diffusion in Dictyostelium cytoplasm studied using fluorescence correlation spectroscopy." J. Biol. Chem. 279: 10013-10019.
	
Roisin-Bouffay, W. and R. H. Gomer (2004). "How to reach the right size?" M/S Medecine Sciences 20: 219-224.
	
Roisin-Bouffay, C., et al. (2004). "Developmental cell death in Dictyostelium does not require paracaspase." J. Biol. Chem. 279: 11489-11494.
	
Rogers, M. J. (2004). "From molds and macrophages to mevalonate: a decade of progress in understanding the molecular mode of action of bisphosphonates." Calcif. Tissue Int. 75: 451-461.
	
Robinson, D. N. and J. A. Spudich (2004). "Mechanics and regulation of cytokinesis." Curr. Opin. Cell Biol. 16: 182-188.
	
Rigden, D. J. (2004). "A distant evolutionary relationship between GPI-specific phospholipase D and bacterial phosphatidylcholine-preferring phospholipase C." FEBS Lett. 569: 229-234.
	
Rieu, J. P., et al. (2004). "Cell movements and mechanical force distribution during migration of Dictyostelium slugs." J. Biol. Phys. 30: 345-364.
	
Rezen, T., et al. (2004). "New aspects on lanosterol 14alpha-demethylase and cytochrome P450 evolution: lanosterol/cycloartenol diversification and lateral transfer." J. Mol. Evol. 59: 51-58.
	
Raisley, B., et al. (2004). "A cAMP receptor-like G protein-coupled receptor with roles in growth regulation and development." Dev. Biol. 265: 433-445.
	
Pradel, E. and J. J. Ewbank (2004). "Genetic models in pathogenesis." Annu. Rev. Genet. 38: 347-363.
	
Pozos, T. C. and L. Ramakrishan (2004). "New models for the study of Mycobacterium-host interactions." Curr. Opin. Immunol. 16: 499-505.
	
Powell, R. R. and L. A. Temesvari (2004). "Involvement of a Rab8-like protein of Dictyostelium discoideum, Sas1, in the formation of membrane extensions, secretion and adhesion during development." Microbiology 150: 2513-2525.
	
Postma, M., et al. (2004). "Sensitization of Dictyostelium chemotaxis by phosphoinositide-3-kinase-mediated self-organizing signalling patches." J. Cell Sci. 117: 2925-2935.
	
Postma, M., et al. (2004). "Chemotaxis: signalling modules join hands at front and tail." EMBO Rep. 5: 35-40.
	
Popowicz, G. M., et al. (2004). "Molecular structure of the rod domain of Dictyostelium filamin." J. Mol. Biol. 342: 1637-1646.
	
Park, K. C., et al. (2004). "Rac regulation of chemotaxis and morphogenesis in Dictyostelium." EMBO J. 23: 4177-4189.
	
Parent, C. A. (2004). Making all the right moves: chemotaxis in neutrophils and Dictyostelium. Curr. Opin. Cell Biol. 16: 4-13.
	
Palkova, Z. (2004). "Multicellular microorganisms: laboratory versus nature." EMBO Rep. 5: 470-476.
	
Otto, G. P., et al. (2004). "Dictyostelium macroautophagy mutants vary in the severity of their developmental defects." J. Biol. Chem. 279: 15621-15629.
	
Otto, G. P., et al. (2004). "Macroautophagy is dispensable for intracellular replication of Legionella pneumophila in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Microbiol. 51: 63-72.
	
Osborn, E. A. (2004). Actin remodeling in motile cells. Cambridge, MA, Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
	
Ohkouchi, S., et al. (2004). "DdAlix, an Alix/AIP1 homololg in Dictyostelium discoideum, is required for multicellular development under low Ca2+ conditions." Gene 337: 131-139.
	
Nyitrai, M. and M. A. Geeves (2004). "Adenosine diphosphate and strain sensitivity in myosin motors." Phil. Trans. R. Soc. Lond. B 359: 1867-1877.
	
Noegel, A. A., et al. (2004). "The cyclase-associated protein CAP as regulator of cell polarity and cAMP signaling in Dictyostelium." Mol. Biol. Cell 15: 934-945.
	
Nishiura, M., et al. (2004). "A single-headed recombinant fragment of Dictyostelium cytoplasmic dynein can drive the robust sliding of microtubules." J. Biol. Chem. 279: 22799-22802.
	
Nakahara, Y. and K. Okamoto (2004). "Unusual properties of the prespore-specific enzyme, UDPgalactose:polysaccharide galactosyl transferase, of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Basic Microbiol. 44: 459-470.
	
Nagasaki, A. and T. Q. P. Uyeda (2004). "DWWA, a novel protein containing two WW domains and an IQ motif, is required for scission of the residual cytoplasmic bridge during cytokinesis in Dictyostelium." Mol. Biol. Cell 15: 435-446.
	
Myre, M. A. and D. H. O'Day (2004). "Dictyostelium nucleomorphin is a member of the BRCT domain family of cell cycle checkpoint proteins." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1675: 192-197.
	
Myre, M. A. and D. H. O'Day (2004). "Calmodulin binds to and inhibits the activity of phosphoglycerate kinase." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1693: 177-183.
	
Myre, M. A. and D. H. O'Day (2004). "Dictyostelium calcium-binding protein 4a interacts with nucleomorphin, a BRCT-domain protein that regulates nuclear number." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 322: 665-671.
	
Muller-Taubenberger, A. and M. Maniak (2004). Dictyostelium discoideum: cellular slime mold (Review). Encyclopedia of molecular cell biology and molecular medicine. R. A. Meyers. Weinheim, Wiley-VCH. 3: 325-349.
	
Mukhopadhyay, S. and S. Chatterjee (2004). "Arsenic inhibits folic acid chemotaxis and phagocytosis in growing Dictyostelium amoebae." Indian J. Microbiol. 44: 43-46.
	
Morita, T., et al. (2004). "Translocation of the Dictyostelium TRAP1 homologue to mitochondria induces a novel prestarvation response." J. Cell Sci. 117: 5759-5770.
	
Morgan, C. P., et al. (2004). "Identification of phospholipase B from Dictyostelium discoideum reveals a new lipase family present in mammals, flies and nematodes, but not yeast." Biochem. J. 382: 441-449.
	
Min, J., et al. (2004). "Overexpression of sphingosine-1-phosphate lyase or inhibtion of sphingosine kinase in Dictyostelium discoideum results in a selective increase in sensitivity to platinum-based chemotherapy drugs." Euk. Cell 3: 795-805.
	
Mayanagi, T., et al. (2004). "Cloning, sequencing, and expression of the genomic DNA encoding the protein phosphatase cdc25 in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Genes Evol. 214: 510-514.
	
Mavoungou, C., et al. (2004). "NMR structural characterization of the N-terminal domain of the adenylyl cyclase-associated protein (CAP) from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biomol. NMR 29: 73-84.
	
Matsuyama, S. I., et al. (2004). "Global change in Escherichia coli gene expression in initial stage of symbiosis with Dictyostelium cells." Biosystems 73: 163-171.
	
Matsuoka, S., et al. (2004). "Defect in peroxisomal multifunctional enzyme MFE1 affects cAMP relay in Dictyostelium." Devel. Growth Differ. 46: 195-199.
	
Maruo, T., et al. (2004). "Control of cell type proportioning in Dictyostelium discoideum by differentiation-inducing factor as determined by in situ hybridization." Euk. Cell 3: 1241-1248.
	
Marchetti, A., et al. (2004). "Formation of multivesicular endosomes in Dictyostelium." J. Cell Sci. 117: 6053-6059.
	
Manstein, D. J. (2004). "Molecular engineering of myosin." Phil. Trans. R. Soc. Lond. B 359: 1907-1912.
	
Manahan, C. L., et al. (2004). "Chemoattractant signaling in Dictyostelium discoideum." Annu. Rev. Cell Dev. Biol. 20: 223-253.
	
Malchow, D., et al. (2004). "A link of Ca2+ to cAMP oscillations in Dictyostelium: the calmodulin antagonist W-7 potentiates cAMP relay and transiently inhibits the acidic Ca2+-store." BMC Dev. Biol. 4:7: 12 pages.
	
Maini, P. K. (2004). "Using mathematical models to help understand biological pattern formation." C.R. Biol. 327: 225-234.
	
Maeda, M., et al. (2004). "Periodic signaling controlled by an oscillatory circuit that includes protein kinases ERK2 and PKA." Science 304: 875-878.
	
Ma, L., et al. (2004). "Two complementary, local excitation, global inhibition mechanisms acting in parallel can explain the chemoattractant-induced regulation of PI(3,4,5)P-3 response in Dictyostelium cells." Biophys. J. 87: 3764-3774.
	
Ma, L. (2004). Feedback control in the chemotactic signaling pathway of Dictyostelium discoideum. Baltimore, MD, The Johns Hopkins University: 139.
	
Lynes, M. A. and D. A. Knecht (2004). System and method for investigating the effect of chemical and other factors on cell movement. USA, University of Connecticut. 002961: 18 pages/10 claims.
	
Lusche, D. F., et al. (2004). "Multichannel apparatus for parallel monitoring of light scattering in Dictyostelium discoideum cell suspensions." Biotechniques 37: 970-975.
	
Lu, Y. H., et al. (2004). "Production of the soluble human Fas ligand by Dictyostelium discoideum cultivated on a synthetic medium." J. Biotechnol. 108: 243-251.
	
Lu, Y., et al. (2004). "Cultivation of immobilized Dictyostelium discoideum for the production of soluble human Fas ligand." Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 65: 547-552.
	
Lu, Y., et al. (2004). "Mass production of Dictyostelium discoideum in homogeneous and heterogeneous cultivation systems." Process Biochem. 39: 1859-1870.
	
Lin, Z., et al. (2004). "Letter to the Editor: H-1, C-13 and N-15 resonance assignments of Ca2+-free DdCAD-1: a Ca2+-dependent cell-cell adhesion molecule." J. Biomol. NMR 30: 375-376.
	
Lin, H. H. S., et al. (2004). "A homologue of Cdk8 is required for spore cell differentiation in Dictyostelium." Dev. Biol. 271: 49-58.
	
Limouze, J., et al. (2004). "Specificity of blebbistatin, an inhibitor of myosin II." J. Muscle Res. Cell Motil. 25: 337-341.
	
Levraud, J. P., et al. (2004). Ch. 3. Cell death in Dictyostelium: assessing a genetic approach. When cells die. II. A comprehensive evaluation of apoptosis and programmed cell death. R. A. Lockshin and Z. Zakeri. New York, NY, Wiley-Liss. 2: 59-77.
	
Levine, B. and D. J. Klionsky (2004). "Development by self-digestion: molecular mechanisms and biological functions of autophagy." Dev. Cell 6: 463-477.
	
Leng, X. (2004). Functional discriminant analysis and time dynamics of microarray gene co-expression. Davis, CA, University of California, Davis: 112.
	
Lefkir, Y., et al. (2004). "Involvement of the AP-1 adaptor complex in early steps of phagocytosis and macropinocytosis." Mol. Biol. Cell 15: 861-869.
	
Lee, S., et al. (2004). "Dictyostelium PAKc is required for proper chemotaxis." Mol. Biol. Cell 15: 5456-5469.
	
Lawson, J. D., et al. (2004). "Molecular dynamics analysis of structural factors influencing back door Pi release in myosin." Biophys. J. 86: 3794-3803.
	
Landree, M. A. and P. N. Devreotes (2004). "Analyzing chemotaxis using Dictyostelium discoideum as a model system." Meth. Mol. Biol. 239: 91-104.
	
Lakshmikanth, G. S., et al. (2004). "A mitotic kinesin-like protein required for normal karyokinesis, myosin localization to the furrow, and cytokinesis in Dictyostelium." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 101: 16519-16524.
	
Kumar, A., et al. (2004). "Sphingosine-1-phosphate plays a role in the suppression of lateral pseudopod formation during Dictyostelium discoideum cell migration and chemotaxis." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 59: 227-241.
	
Kubohara, Y., et al. (2004). "Prespore-to-stalk conversion involves the production of a pathway-specific glycoprotein, wst25, in the cellular slime mould Dicyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 320: 468-473.
	
Krishnan, J. and P. A. Iglesias (2004). "A modeling framework describing the enzyme regulation of membrane lipids underlying gradient perception in Dictyostelium cells." J. Theor. Biol. 229: 85-99.
	
Kriebel, P. W. and C. A. Parent (2004). "Adenylyl cyclase expression and regulation during the differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum." Iubmb Life 56: 541-546.
	
Kreppel, L., et al. (2004). "dictyBase: a new Dictyostelium discoideum genome database." Nucl. Acids Res. 32: D332-D333.
	
Kovacs, M., et al. (2004). "Engineering lysine reactivity as a conformational sensor in the Dictyostelium myosin II motor domain." J. Muscle Res. Cell Motil. 25: 95-102.
	
Kosta, A., et al. (2004). "Autophagy gene disruption reveals a non-vacuolar cell death pathway in Dictyostelium." J. Biol. Chem. 279: 48404-48409.
	
Korn, E. D. (2004). "The discovery of unconventional myosins: serendipity or luck?" J. Biol. Chem. 279: 8517-8525.
	
Kon, T., et al. (2004). "Distinct functions of nucleotide-binding/hydrolysis sites in the four AAA modules of cytoplasmic dynein." Biochemistry 43: 11266-11274.
	
Kohl, R. (2004). Vom Ich zum Wir - Betruger, Kannibalen und ganz gewohnliche Amoben: die altesten mikrobiologischen Genossenschaften. junge Welt. March 20: 2 pages.
	
Kobayashi, M., et al. (2004). "Conservation of functional domain structure in bicarbonate-regulated "soluble" adenylyl cyclases in bacteria and eukaryotes." Dev. Genes Evol. 214: 503-509.
	
Knuth, M., et al. (2004). "A novel partner for Dictyostelium filamin is an alpha-helical developmentally regulated protein." J. Cell Sci. 117: 5013-5022.
	
Kirmani, K. Z. (2004). The effects of hydrogen peroxide and the involvement of the cysteine proteases in the life cycle of the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum, and the acid-activatable proteases of Acanthamoeba castellanii. Windsor, Ont., Canada, University of Windsor: 140.
	
Kimmel, A. R. and R. A. Firtel (2004). "Breaking symmetries: regulation of Dictyostelium development through chemoattractant and morphogen signal-repsonse." Curr. Opin. Genet. Devel. 14: 540-549.
	
Kikuchi, H., et al. (2004). "Structural requirements of dictyopyrones isolated from Dictyostelium spp. in the regulation of Dictyostelium development and in anti-leukemic activity." Bioorg. Med. Chem. 12: 3203-3214.
	
Ketcham, C., et al. (2004). "Specificity of a soluble UDP-galactose:fucoside alpha1,3-galactosyltransferase that modifies the cytoplasmic glycoprotein Skp1 in Dictyostelium." J. Biol. Chem. 279: 29050-29059.
	
Keim, M., et al. (2004). "An inverse PCR technique to rapidly isolate the flanking DNA of Dictyostelium insertion mutants." Mol. Biotechnol. 26: 221-224.
	
Kawata, T., et al. (2004). "A gene encoding, prespore-cell-inducing factor in Dictyostelium discoideum." Devel. Growth Differ. 46: 383-392.
	
Katoh, M., et al. (2004). "An orderly retreat: dedifferentiation is a regulated process." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 101: 7005-7010.
	
Kae, H., et al. (2004). "Chemoattractant-induced Ras activation during Dictyostelium aggregation." EMBO Rep. 5: 602-606.
	
Joulaie, R. (2004). Characterization of the putative modulatory calcineurin-interacting protein in Dictyostelium discoideum. Toronto, Ont., Canada, York University: 114.
	
Jarmuszkiewicz, W., et al. (2004). "Uncoupling proteins in amoeboid eukaryotes, Acanthamoeba castellanii, and Dictyostelium discoideum." Toxicol. Mech. Meth. 14: 3-6.
	
Jang, W. (2004). Theoretical and experimental studies on a cell number counting mechanism. Houston, TX, Rice University: 196.
	
Janetopoulos, C., et al. (2004). "Chemoattractant-induced phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate accumulation is spatially amplified and adapts, independent of the actin cytoskeleton." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 101: 8951-8956.
	
Iwai, S., et al. (2004). "A novel actin-bundling kinesin-related protein from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 279: 4696-4704.
	
Hwang, J. Y., et al. (2004). "The effect of selected monoterpenoids on the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum NC4." J. Chem. Ecol. 30: 1153-1163.
	
Huang, Y. E. (2004). Phosphatidylinositol signaling in chemotaxis. Baltimore, MD, Johns Hopkins University: 92.
	
Huang, Y. C., et al. (2004). "Disruption of the peroxisomal citrate synthase CshA affects cell growth and multicellular development in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Microbiol. 53: 81-91.
	
Huang, X. (2004). DIII domain of calpain 10 and Cpl: towards an understanding of calpain 10 function. Toledo, OH, Medical College of Ohio: 131.
	
Hou, L. S., et al. (2004). "Adhesion molecules and signal transduction during Dictyostelium development." Chinese Bull. Life Sci. 16: 221-225.
	
Hou, L. S. (2004). "The role of gp150 and analysis of the relationship between adhesion molecules during Dictyostelium discoideum development." Acta Zool. Sinica 50: 75-82.
	
Hou, L., et al. (2004). "Comparative investigation of morphogenesis and isoenzymes between the wild cells KAX-3 and the mutant cells AK127 during the Dictyostelium discoideum development." J. East China Normal Univ. Natural Sci. 4: 103-110.
	
Hostetter, D., et al. (2004). "Dictyostelium myosin bipolar thick filament formation: Importance of charge and specific domains of the myosin rod." PLoS Biol. 2: 1880-1892 (e1356).
	
Hostetter, D. (2004). Regulation of myosin II bipolar thick filament assembly. Palo Alto, CA, Stanford University: 225.
	
Hibi, M., et al. (2004). "Dictyostelium discoideum talin A is crucial for myosin II- independent and adhesion-dependent cytokinesis." J. Muscle Res. Cell Motil. 25: 127- 140.
	
Hestermann, A. and R. Graf (2004). "The XMAP215-family protein DdCP224 is required for cortical interactions of microtubules." BMC Cell Biol. 5:24: 9 pages.
	
Hereld, D. and P. N. Devreotes (2004). Cyclic AMP receptors of Dictyostelium. Encyclopedia of Biological Chemistry. W. J. Lennarz and M. D. Lane, Elsevier/Ac. Press. 1: 488-493.
	
Heid, P. J., et al. (2004). "The role of myosin heavy chain phosphorylation in Dictyostelium motility, chemotaxis and F-actin localization." J. Cell Sci. 117: 4819-4835.
	
Hasegawa, Y., et al. (2004). "A homolog of Escherichia coli RecA in mitochondria of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." DNA Repair (Amst) 3: 515-525.
	
Hasegawa, Y., et al. (2004). "The recA-deficient Dictyostelium discoideum forms large fruiting bodies." Microbes Envir. 19: 281-285.
	
Harwood, A. and J. C. Coates (2004). "A prehistory of cell adhesion." Curr. Opin. Cell Biol 16: 470-476.
	
Han, S. I., et al. (2004). "Cultivation of Dictyostelium discoideum on an improved synthetic medium in a conventional bioreactor." Process Biochem. 39: 585-589.
	
Han, S. I., et al. (2004). "Improvement of a synthetic medium for Dictyostelium discoideum." Process Biochem. 39: 925-930.
	
Hagiwara, H., et al. (2004). "Mating system and morphology of the temperate form of Dictyostelium purpureum Olive." Bull. Natl. Sci. Mus. Tokyo, Ser. B 30: 71-78.
	
Hagiwara, H. (2004). "Dictyostelids in Japan. XIII. Dictyostelium clavatum Hagiwara." Bull. Natl. Sci. Mus. Tokyo, Ser. B 30: 15-19.
	
Gray, M. W., et al. (2004). "Mitochondria of protists." Annu. Rev. Genet. 38: 477-524.
	
Graf, S., et al. (2004). "A database search for double-strand containing RNAs in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biol. Chem. 385: 961-965.
	
Graf, R., et al. (2004). "Molecular and functional analysis of the Dictyostelium centrosome." Int. Rev. Cytol. 241: 155-202.
	
Gordeeva, A. V., et al. (2004). "Apoptosis in unicellular organisms: Mechanisms and evolution." Biochemistry Moscow 69: 1055-1066.
	
Gomez-Garcia, M. R. and A. Kornberg (2004). "Formation of an actin-like filament concurrent with the enzymatic synthesis of inorganic polyphosphate." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 101: 15876-15880.
	
Girard, K. D., et al. (2004). "Dynacortin contributes to cortical viscoelasticity and helps define the shape changes of cytokinesis." EMBO J. 23: 1536-1546.
	
Gerisch, G., et al. (2004). "Actin-binding proteins required for reliable chromosome segregation in mitosis." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 57: 18-25.
	
Gerisch, G., et al. (2004). "Mobile actin clusters and traveling waves in cells recovering from actin depolymerization." Biophys. J. 87: 3493-3503.
	
Gerisch, G., et al. (2004). "GFP-golvesin constructs to study Golgi tubulation and post-Golgi vesicle dynamics in phagocytosis." Eur. J. Cell Biol. 83: 297-303.
	
Gebbie, L., et al. (2004). "Phg2, a kinase involved in adhesion and focal site modeling in Dictyostelium." Mol. Biol. Cell 15: 3915-3925.
	
Gard, D. L., et al. (2004). "MAPping the eukaryotic tree of life: structure, function, and evolution of the MAP215/Dis1 family of microtubule-associated proteins." Int. Rev. Cytol. 239: 179-272.
	
Gao, T., et al. (2004). "A cell number counting factor regulates Akt/protein kinase B to regulate Dictyostelium discoideum group size." Euk. Cell 3: 1176-1184.
	
Franke, J. (2004). The dicty stock center (DSC). WFCC Newsletter. No. 38 (Jan. 2004): 2 pages.
	
Franca-Koh, J. and P. N. Devreotes (2004). "Moving forward: mechanisms of chemoattractant gradient sensing." Physiology 19: 300-308.
	
Foster, K. R., et al. (2004). "Pleiotropy as a mechanism to stabilize cooperation." Nature 431: 693-696.
	
Fischer, M., et al. (2004). "A brilliant monomer red fluorescent protein to visualize cytoskeleton dynamics in Dictyostelium." FEBS Lett. 577: 227-232.
	
Fajardo, M., et al. (2004). "Calnexin, calreticulin and cytoskeleton-associated proteins modulate uptake and growth of Legionella pneumophila in Dictyostelium discoideum." Microbiology 150: 2825-2835.
	
Faix, J., et al. (2004). "A rapid and efficient method to generate multiple gene disruptions in Dictyostelium discoideum using a single selectable marker and the Cre-loxP system." Nucl. Acids Res. 32: E143.
	
Escalante, R., et al. (2004). "The MADS-box transcription factor SrfA is required for actin cytoskeleton organization and spore coat stability during Dictyostelium sporulation." Mech. Devel. 121: 51-56.
	
Escalante, R., et al. (2004). "Identification of genes dependent on the MADS box transcription factor SrfA in Dictyostelium discoideum development." Euk. Cell 3: 564-566.
	
El-Halawany, M. S., et al. (2004). "Identification of cysteine protease inhibitors that belong to cystatin family 1 in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Biol. Chem. 385: 547-550.
	
Ehrenman, K., et al. (2004). "Disruption of aldehyde reductase increases group size in Dictyostelium." J. Biol. Chem. 279: 837-847.
	
Drennan, B. and R. D. Beer (2004). "A model for exploring genetic control of artificial amoebae." Proc. Ninth Int. Conf. on the Simulation and Synthesis of Living Systems: 6 pages.
	
Dormann, D., et al. (2004). "In vivo analysis of 3-phosphoinositide dynamics during Dictyostelium in phagocytosis and chemotaxis." J. Cell Sci. 117: 6497-6509.
	
Doquang, K. (2004). Cdc2 links the cell division cycle to differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum. Montreal, Quebec (Canada), Concordia University: 78.
	
de la Roche, M. (2004). Regulation of class I and class II myosins in Dictyostelium discoideum. Kingston, Ontario (Canada), Queen's University: 175.
	
Dallon, J. C. and H. G. Othmer (2004). "How cellular movement determines the collective force generated by the Dictyostelium discoideum slug." J. Theor. Biol. 231: 203-222.
	
Cvrckova, F., et al. (2004). "Evolutionarily conserved modules in actin nucleation: lessons from Dictyostelium discoideum and plants." Protoplasma 224: 15-31.
	
Coukell, B., et al. (2004). "The Ca2+/calcineurin-regulated cup gene family in Dictyostelium discoideum and its possible involvement in development." Euk. Cell 3: 61-71.
	
Coukell, B., et al. (2004). "Disruption of the NCS-1/frequenin-related ncsA gene in Dictyostelium discoideum accelerates development." Devel. Growth Differ. 46: 449-458.
	
Cogan, B. (2004). Control theory. Sci. Comput. World. February 04: 3 pages.
	
Clarke, M. and L. Maddera (2004). "Distribution of alkaline phosphatase in vegetative Dictyostelium cells in relation to the contractile vacuole complex." Eur. J. Cell Biol. 83: 289-296.
	
Chisholm, R. L. and R. A. Firtel (2004). "Insights into morphogenesis from a simple developmental system." Nature Rev. Mol. Cell Biol. 5: 531-541.
	
Chida, J., et al. (2004). "The necessity of mitochondrial genome DNA for normal development of Dictyostelium cells." J. Cell Sci. 117: 3141-3152.
	
Chibalina, M. V., et al. (2004). "Gdt2 regulates the transition of Dictyostelium cells from growth to differentiation." BMC Dev. Biol. 4:8: 13 pages.
	
Chen, J., et al. (2004). "Legionella effectors that promote nonlytic release from protozoa." Science 303: 1358-1361.
	
Chen, G. K., et al. (2004). "Tissue-specific G1-phase cell-cycle arrest prior to terminal differentiation in Dictyostelium." Development 131: 2619-2630.
	
Charette, S. J. and P. Cosson (2004). "Preparation of genomic DNA from Dictyostelium discoideum for PCR analysis." Biotechniques 36: 574-575.
	
Chanchao, C. (2004). "Expression pattern pf glycogen synthase, glycogen phosphorylase-2, phosphodiesterase inhibitor, and SP60 in Dictyostelium discoideum." KMITL Science J. 4.
	
Cavender, J., et al. (2004). "Comparison of cellular slime mold populations on three Caribbean Islands, including a description of the new species Polysphondylium equisetoides." Syst. Geogr. Plants 74: 243-250.
	
Byrne, H. M. and M. R. Owen (2004). "A new interpretation of the Keller-Segel model based on multiphase modelling." J. Math. Biol. 49: 604-626.
	
Brzostowski, J. A., et al. (2004). "A Galpha-dependent pathway that antagonizes multiple chemoattractant responses that regulate directional cell movement." Genes Devel. 18: 805-815.
	
Brodegger, T., et al. (2004). "Novel thioredoxin targets in Dictyostelium discoideum identified by two-hybrid analysis: interactions of thioredoxin with elongation factor 1 alpha and yeast alcohol dehydrogenase." Biol. Chem. 385: 1185-1192.
	
Bretschneider, T., et al. (2004). "Dynamic actin patterns and Arp2/3 assembly at the substrate- attached surface of motile cells." Curr. Biol. 14: 1-10.
	
Bradbury, J. (2004). A different STATus quo in Dictyostelium. Development. 131: 203e.
	
Bozzaro, S., et al. (2004). "Guenther Gerisch and Dictyostelium, the microbial model for ameboid motility and multicellular morphogenesis." Trends Cell Biol. 14: 585-588.
	
Bowers-Morrow, V. M., et al. (2004). "Comparison of molecular mechanisms mediating cell contact phenomena in model developmental systems: an exploration of universality." Biol. Rev. 79: 611-642.
	
Bosgraaf, L. (2004). Four Dictyostelium cGMP-binding proteins and their role in chemotaxis. Groningen, Netherlands, Rijksunversiteit, Groningen: 158.
	
Bonner, J. T. (2004). "Perspective: the size-complexity rule." Evolution 58: 1883-1890.
	
Blagg, S. L. and R. H. Insall (2004). "Control of SCAR activity in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Soc. Trans. 32: 1113-1114.
	
Blagg, S. L. and R. H. Insall (2004). "Solving the WAVE function." Nature Cell Biol. 6: 279-281.
	
Betapudi, V., et al. (2004). "Generation of double gene disruptions in Dictyostelium discoideum using a single antibiotic marker selection." Biotechniques 36: 106-112.
	
Behera, N. and V. Nanjundiah (2004). "Phenotypic plasticity can potentiate rapid evolutionary change." J. Theor. Biol. 226: 177-184.
	
Beck, M., et al. (2004). "Nuclear pore complex structure and dynamics revealed by cryoelectron tomography." Science 306: 1387-1390.
	
Baker, D. A. and J. M. Kelly (2004). "Structure, function and evolution of microbial adenylyl and guanylyl cyclases." Mol. Microbiol. 52: 1229-1242.
	
Aspegren, A., et al. (2004). "Novel non-coding RNAs in Dictyostelium discoideum and their expression during development." Nucl. Acids Res. 32: 4646-4656.
	
Asano, Y., et al. (2004). "Keratocyte-like locomotion in amiB-null Dictyostelium cells." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 59: 17-27.
	
Alexander, H. and S. Alexander (2004). Methods for screening novel agents for use in cancer therapy and prevention. USA, The Curators of The University of Missouri: 21 pages/31 claims.
	The present invention provides for methods of screening agents for cancer therapeutic and prophylactic activity. In particular embodiments, cells of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum are contacted with candidate agents and the expression of genes in the Nucleotide Excision Repair (NER) and Base Excision Repair (BER) pathways are examined. Such genes include the helicases repB and repD, and the apurinic-apyrmidinic endonuclease APE. 

Alexander, H. and S. Alexander (2004). Methods of screening novel agents for use in cancer therapy and prevention. USA, The Curators of The University of Missouri (Columbia, MO) 
	The present invention provides for methods of screening agents for cancer therapeutic and prophylactic activity. In particular embodiments, cells of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum are contacted with candidate agents and the expression of genes in the Nucleotide Excision Repair (NER) and Base Excision Repair (BER) pathways are examined. Such genes include the helicases repB and repD, and the apurinic-apyrmidinic endonuclease APE.

Akaishi, E., et al. (2004). "Differentiation-inducing factor-1-induced growth arrest of K562 leukemia cells involves the reduction of ERK1/2 activity." Eur. J. Pharmacol. 485: 21-29.
	
Agarwal, M., et al. (2004). "Chimeric analysis of the small GTPase RacE in cytokinesis signaling in Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Cell Res. 295: 226-235.
	
Agarwal, M. (2004). Structural and functional characterization of Dictyostelium discoideum RacE in cytokinesis signaling. Worcester, MA, Clark University: 213.
	
(2004). Biologists ID molecular block for social 'cheaters' - Gene's dual role in cooperation, reproduction provides evolutionary protection. Rice University. October 7: 2 pages.
	
(2004). Amoeba could model chemotaxis in human PMNs. ASM News. 70: 421.
	
Zupan, B., et al. (2003). "GenePath: a system for automated construction of genetic networks from mutant data." Bioinformatics 19: 383-389.
	
Zupan, B., et al. (2003). "GenePath: a system for inference of genetic networks and proposal of genetic experiments." Artif. Intell. Medic. 29: 107-130.
	
Zhang, H., et al. (2003). "Constitutively active protein kinase A disrupts motility and chemotaxis in Dictyostelium discoideum." Euk. Cell 2: 62-75.
	
Yumura, S. and T. Q. P. Uyeda (2003). "Myosins and cell dynamics in cellular slime molds." Int. Rev. Cytol. 224: 173-225.
	
Yohnaha, H. and Y. Tanaka (2003). "Analysis of genes linked to the branching structure of Polysphondylium pallidum." Tsukuba J. Biol. 2: 79.
	
Yeh, Z. Y. (2003). "Biodiversity inventory of dictyostelid cellular slime molds in Taiwan." Mycotaxon 86 (April/June): 103-110.
	
Yasukawa, H., et al. (2003). "Identification of a penicillin-sensitive carboxypeptidase in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Biol. Pharm. Bull. 26: 1018-1020.
	
Yamada, Y. and M. Sameshima (2003). "Hypertonic signal promotes stability of Dictyostelium spores via a PKA-independent pathway." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 229: 159-164.
	
Wu, G. and M. Muller (2003). "Glycogen phosphorylase sequences from the amitochondriate protists, Trichomonas vaginalis, Mastigamoeba balamuthi, Entamoeba histolytica and Giardia intestinalis." J. Euk. Microbiol. 50: 366-372.
	
Williams, J. G. (2003). The STAT proteins of Dictyostelium. Signal Transducers and Activators of Transcription (STATs). Activation and Biology. P. B. Sehgal, D. E. Levy and T. Hirano. Boston, Kluwer Academic Publishers: 105-121.
	
Williams, H. P. and A. J. Harwood (2003). "Cell polarity and Dictyostelium development." Curr. Opin. Microbiol. 6: 621-627.
	
West, C. M. (2003). "Comparative analysis of spore coat formation, structure, and function in Dictyostelium." Int. Rev. Cyotol. 222: 237-293.
	
West, C. M. (2003). "Evolutionary and functional implications of the complex glycosylation of Skp1, a cytoplasmic/nuclear glycoprotein associated with polyubiquitination." Cell. Mol. Life Sci. 60: 229-240.
	
Weijer, C. J. (2003). "Visualizing signals moving in cells." Science 300: 96-100.
	
Weening, K. E., et al. (2003). "Contrasting activities of the aggregative and late pdsA promoters in Dictyostelium development." Dev. Biol. 255: 373-382.
	
Weeks, G. and G. B. Spiegelman (2003). "Roles played by Ras subfamily proteins in the cell and developmental biology of microorganisms." Cell. Signal. 15: 901-909.
	
Weber, I. (2003). "Reflection interference contrast microscopy." Meth. Enzymol. 361: 34-47.
	
Watanabe, S., et al. (2003). "Unexpected roles of a Dictyostelium homologue of eukaryotic EF-2 in growth and differentiation." J. Cell Sci. 116: 2647-2654.
	
Wang, J. S., et al. (2003). "Compromise of clathrin function and membrane association by clathrin light chain deletion." Traffic 4: 891-901.
	
Wang, F., et al. (2003). "Initiation of mucin-type O-glycosylation in Dictyostelium is homologous to the corresponding step in animals and is important for spore coat function." J. Biol. Chem. 278: 51395-51407.
	
Vorobiev, S., et al. (2003). "The structure of nonvertebrate actin: implications for the ATP hydrolytic mechanism." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 100: 5760-5765.
	
von Lohneysen, K., et al. (2003). "A Dictyostelium long chain fatty acyl coenzyme A-synthetase mediates fatty acid retrieval from endosomes." Eur. J. Cell Biol. 82: 505-514.
	
Vischer, H. F., et al. (2003). "Both recombinant African catfish LH and FSH are able to activate the African catfish FSH receptor." J. Mol. Endocrinol. 31: 133-140.
	
Veltman, D. M., et al. (2003). "Chemoattractant-stimulated calcium influx in Dictyostelium discoideum does not depend on cGMP." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1623: 129-134.
	
Veltman, D. and P. J. M. van Haastert (2003). "Regulation of Dictyostelium guanylyl cyclases." Protist 154: 33-42.
	
Vasiev, B. and C. J. Weijer (2003). "Modelling of Dictyostelium discoideum slug migration." J. Theor. Biol. 223: 347-359.
	
Vadell, E. M. (2003). Contribucion a la sistematica y ecologia de los Dictiostelidos del Parque Nacional Iguazu, Misiones, Argentina. Buenos Aires, Universidad de Buenos Aires: 260.
	
Uchida, K. S. K., et al. (2003). "Myosin II contributes to the posterior contraction and the anterior extension during the retraction phase in migrating Dictyostelium cells." J. Cell Sci. 116: 51-60.
	
Ubeidat, M. and C. L. Rutherford (2003). "Purification and renaturation of Dictyostelium recombinant alkaline phosphatase by continuous elution electrophoresis." Prot. Expr. Purif. 27: 375-383.
	
Tsuji, A., et al. (2003). "Multinucleation of the sodC-deficient Dictyostelium discoideum." Biol. Pharmaceut. Bull. 26: 1174-1177.
	
Teyssedre, B. (2003). "Chuaria, Tawuia, Longfengshania. Trois classes de fossiles precambriens pour un meme taxon." C.R. Palevol. 2: 503-508.
	
Tekinay, T., et al. (2003). "Genetic interactions of the E3 ubiquitin ligase component FbxA with cyclic AMP metabolism and a histidine kinase signaling pathway during Dictyostelium discoideum development." Euk. Cell 2: 618-626.
	
Takeda, K., et al. (2003). "A novel gene trap method using terminator-REMI and 3' rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE) in Dictyostelium." Gene 312: 321-333.
	
Takahashi-Yanaga, F., et al. (2003). "Dictyostelium differentiation-inducing factor-3 activates glycogen synthase kinase-3 beta and degrades cyclin D1 in mammalian cells." J. Biol. Chem. 278: 9663-9670.
	
Sun, B. G., et al. (2003). "Dictyostelium stress-activated protein kinase alpha, a novel stress-activated mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase kinase-like kinase, is important for the proper regulation of the cytoskeleton." Mol. Biol. Cell 14: 4526-4540.
	
Sun, B. G. and R. A. Firtel (2003). "A regulator of G protein signaling-containing kinase is important for chemotaxis and multicellular development in Dictyostelium." Mol. Biol. Cell 14: 1727-1743.
	
Sucgang, R., et al. (2003). "Sequence and structure of the extrachromosomal palindrome encoding the ribosomal RNA genes in Dictyostelium." Nucl. Acids Res. 31: 2361-2368.
	
Steven, A. C. and S. U. Aebi (2003). "The next ice age: cryo-electron tomography of intact cells." Trends Cell Biol. 13: 107-110.
	
Stephan, M., et al. (2003). "Influence of medium composition on growth behaviour of Dictyostelium discoideum for cultivation on axenic media." Process Biochem. 39: 333-343.
	
Steinert, M., et al. (2003). "Surrogate hosts: protozoa and invertebrates as models for studying pathogen-host interactions." Int. J. Med. Micriobiol. 293: 321-332.
	
Steenbergen, J. N., et al. (2003). "Cryptococcus neoformans virulence is enhanced after growth in the genetically malleable host Dictyostelium discoideum." Inf. Immun. 71: 4862-4872.
	
Steenbergen, J. N. (2003). The evolution of fungal virulence. New York, NY, Yeshiva University: 222.
	
Stasiak, A. (2003). Life cycle of a biologist. EMBO Rep. 4: 457.
	
Spinney, L. (2003). Slime mould clue to depression. Drug Disc. Today. 8: 817-818.
	
Spiegel, F. and S. Stephenson (2003). Slime mold central: eumycetozoan research takes off at the University of Arkansas. Inoculum (Suppl. Mycologia). 54(6): 4-5.
	
Solomon, J. M., et al. (2003). "Intracellular replication of Mycobacterium marinum within Dictyostelium discoideum: efficient replication in the absence of host coronin." Inf. Immun. 71: 3578-3586.
	
Soll, D. R., et al. (2003). "Computer-assisted reconstruction and motion analysis of the three-dimensional cell." TheScientificWorldJOURNAL 3: 827-841.
	
Soll, D. (2003). Dictyostelium may model diseases involving defects in cellular chemotaxis. ASM News. 69: 246.
	
Soldati, T. (2003). "Unconventional myosins, actin dynamics and endocytosis: a menage a trois?" Traffic 4: 358-366.
	
Shu, S., et al. (2003). "Dictylostelium and Acanthamoeba myosin II assembly domains go to the cleavage furrow of Dictyostelium myosin II-null cells." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 100: 6499-6504.
	
Schuldt, A. (2003). Leading the pack. Nature Cell Biol. 5: 277.
	
Schreiner, T., et al. (2003). "Loss of the F-actin binding and vesicle-associated protein comitin leads to a phagocytosis defect." Euk. Cell 1: 906-914.
	
Schneider, N., et al. (2003). "A LIM protein involved in the progression of cytokinesis and regulation of the mitotic spindle." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 56: 130-139.
	
Schlosser, A., et al. (2003). "Analysis of post-translational modification and characterization of the domain structure of dynamin A from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Mass Spectrom. 38: 277-U210.
	
Schilde, C. (2003). The role of GSK-3 in the development of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum. Dundee, Scotland, University of Dundee.
	
Sasaki, N., et al. (2003). "Dictyostelium myosin II mutations that uncouple the converter swing and ATP hydrolysis cycle." Biochemistry 42: 90-95.
	
Sako, Y. and T. Yanagida (2003). "Single-molecule visualization in cell biology." Nature Rev. Mol. Cell Biol. @pl.): Ss1-Ss5.
	
Sakamoto, H., et al. (2003). "Identification and characterization of novel calcium-binding proteins of Dictyostelium and their spatial expression patterns during development." Devel. Growth Differ. 45: 507-514.
	
Ryves, W. J. and A. J. Harwood (2003). "The interaction of glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3) with the cell cycle." Progr. Cell Cycle Res. 5: 489-496.
	
Rutherford, C. L., et al. (2003). "Analysis of 5' nucleotidase and alkaline phosphatase by gene disruption in Dictyostelium." Genesis 35: 202-213.
	
Roelofs, J., et al. (2003). cGMP signalling: different ways to create a pathway. Trends Genet. (TIG). 19: 132-134.
	
Roelofs, J. (2003). Dictyostelium guanylyl cyclases: the development of cGMP signaling. Groningen, Netherlands, Rijksuniversiteit Groningen: 158.
	
Rieu, J. P., et al. (2003). "Cell movements and traction forces during the migration of 2-dimensional Dictyostelium slugs." J. Biol. Phys. 29: Sn1-Sn4.
	
Ridley, A. J., et al. (2003). "Cell migration: integrating signals from front to back." Science 302: 1704-1709.
	
Rico, M. and T. T. Egelhoff (2003). "Myosin heavy chain kinase B participates in the regulation of myosin assembly into the cytoskeleton." J. Cell. Biochem. 88: 521-532.
	
Reymond, C. D. (2003). Use of the regulatory subunit of the cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) from Dictyostelium for cAMP measurements. USA, RMF Dictagene S.A.: 15 pages/13 claims.
	The invention relates to the use of the regulatory subunit (R) of the cAMP dependent protein kinase (PKA) from Dictyostelium discoideum for cAMP detection. It includes constructs for expression of the R-subunit in E. coli and fusion to green fluorescent proteins (GFP). Fluorescence energy transfer is used as a way to monitor cAMP binding, either by using fluorescently labelled cAMP or cGMP, or by using mutant GFPs with modified absorption and emission spectra. FRET changes upon cAMP binding will allow measurement of cAMP level either in vitro or within living cells. 


Reubold, T. F., et al. (2003). "A structural model for actin-induced nucleotide release in myosin." Nature Struct. Biol. 10: 826-830.
	
Queller, D. C., et al. (2003). "Single-gene greenbeard effects in the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum." Science 299: 105-106.
	
Queller, D. C., et al. (2003). Cooperation and conflict in the social amoeba, Dictyostelium discoideum. Genes, Behaviors and Evolution of Social Insects. T. Kikuchi, N. Azuma and S. Higashi. Sapporo, Japan, Hokkaido Univ. Press: 173-200.
	
Prevorovsky, M. and F. Puta (2003). "A/T-rich inverted DNA repeats are destabilized by chaotrope-containing buffer during purification using silica gel membrane technology." Biotechniques 35: 698-702.
	
Postma, M., et al. (2003). "Uniform cAMP stimulation of Dictyostelium cells induces localized patches of signal transduction and pseudopodia." Mol. Biol. Cell 14: 5019-5027.
	
Postma, M. (2003). Spatial and temporal aspects in biological signal transduction. Groningen, the Netherlands, Rijksuniversiteit Groningen: 171.
	
Platt, T. G. (2003). Conflict and cooperation in the tropical wasp, Parachartergus colobopterus, and the chimeric multicellular organism, Dictyostelium discoideum. Houston, TX, Rice University: 57.
	
Pasti, C., et al. (2003). "Reaction of human UMP-CMP kinase with natural and analog substrates." Eur. J. Biochem. 270: 1784-1790.
	
Palkova, Z. and L. Vachova (2003). "Ammonia signaling in yeast colony formation." Int. Rev. Cytol. 225: 229-272.
	
Painter, K. J. and J. A. Sherratt (2003). "Modelling the movement of interacting cell populations." J. Theor. Biol. 225: 327-339.
	
Otto, G. P., et al. (2003). "Macroautophagy is required for multicellular development of the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 278: 17636-17645.
	
Otto, G. (2003). Macroautophagy is required for multicellular development of the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum. New York, NY, Columbia University: 143.
	
O'Day, D. H. (2003). "CaMBOT: profiling and characterizing calmodulin-binding proteins." Cell. Signal. 15: 347-354.
	
Nieves-Rivera, A. M. (2003). "Mycological survey of Rio Camuy Caves Park, Puerto Rico." J. Cave Karst Studies 65: 23-28.
	
Nellen, W. and M. Maniak (2003). Dictyostelium: cell culture and molecular tools. Encyclopedia of Life Sciences, Wiley Interscience (John Wiley and Sons).
	Dictyostelium provides an easy-to-grow model system for the study of the cellular functions of a unicellular eukaryote. A variety of conditions initiate a differentiation process resulting in a multicellular structure of low complexity. A plethora of molecular tools allow for easy genetic manipulation.


Muramoto, T., et al. (2003). "Construction of a gamete-enriched gene pool and RNAi-mediated functional analysis in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mech. Devel. 120: 965-975.
	
Mukhopadhyay, S. and S. Chatterjee (2003). "Effect of arsenic on cell growth of the cellular slime mould, Dictyostelium discoideum." Indian J. Exp. Biol. 41: 1300-1305.
	
Moore, D. L. and S. L. Stephenson (2003). "Microhabitat distribution of protostelids in a tropical wet forest in Costa Rica." Mycologia 95: 11-18.
	
Monjusho, H., et al. (2003). "A neutral ceramidase homologue from Dictyostelium discoideum exhibits an acidic pH optimum." Biochem. J. 376: 473-479.
	
Metcalf, T., et al. (2003). "Formation of the outer layer of the Dictyostelium spore coat depends on the inner-layer protein SP85/PsB." Microbiology 149: 305-317.
	
Merlot, S., et al. (2003). "A PTEN-related 5-phosphatidylinositol phosphatase localized in the Golgi." J. Biol. Chem. 278: 39866-39873.
	
Merlot, S. and R. A. Firtel (2003). "Leading the way: directional sensing through phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase and other signaling pathways." J. Cell Sci. 116: 3471-3478.
	
Meima, M. E., et al. (2003). "Characterization of a cAMP-stimulated cAMP phosphodiesterase in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 278: 14356-14362.
	
Meili, R. and R. A. Firtel (2003). "Two poles and a compass." Cell 114: 153-156.
	
Meili, R. and R. A. Firtel (2003). Follow the leader. Dev. Cell. 4: 291-293.
	
Matsuoka, S., et al. (2003). "MFE1, a member of the peroxisomal hydroxyacyl coenzyme A dehydrogenase family, affects fatty acid metabolism necessary for morphogenesis in Dictyostelium spp." Euk. Cell 2: 638-645.
	
Maselli, A., et al. (2003). "Formation of Hirano bodies induced by expression of an actin cross-linking protein with a gain-of-function mutation." Euk. Cell 2: 778-787.
	
Maniak, M. (2003). "Fusion and fission events in the endocytic pathway of Dictyostelium." Traffic 4: 1-5.
	
Mangiarotti, G. (2003). "Two Dictyostelium ribosomal proteins act as RNases for specific classes of mRNAs." Biochem. J. 370: 713-717.
	
Maeda, Y., et al. (2003). "Multiple activities of a novel substance, dictyopyrone C isolated from Dictyostelium discoideum, in cellular growth and differentiation." Protoplasma 221: 185-192.
	
Maeda, M., et al. (2003). "Changing patterns of gene expression in Dictyostelium prestalk cell subtypes recognized by in situ hybridization with genes from microarray analyses." Euk. Cell 2: 627-637.
	
Luo, H. B. R., et al. (2003). "Inositol pyrophosphates mediate chemotaxis in Dictyostelium via pleckstrin homology domain-PtdIns (3,4,5)P3 interactions." Cell 114: 559-572.
	
Loovers, H. M., et al. (2003). "A diverse family of inositol 5-phosphatases playing a role in growth and development in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 278: 5652-5658.
	
Lohia, A. (2003). Midwifery and assisted reproduction in Dictyostelium and Entamoeba. J. Biosci. 28: 139-140.
	
Li, Y. (2003). Identification and characterizaion of calcium ion upregulated cup genes in Dictyostelium discoideum. Toronto, Ont., Canada, York University: 106.
	
Levraud, J. P., et al. (2003). "Dictyostelium cell death: early emergence and demise of highly polarized paddle cells." J. Cell Biol. 160: 1105-1114.
	
Leslie, M. (2003). Secrets of slime (database). Science. 300: 399.
	
Lefkir, Y., et al. (2003). "The AP-1 clathrin-adaptor is required for lysosomal enzymes sorting and biogenesis of the contractile vacuole complex in Dictyostelium cells." Mol. Biol. Cell 14: 1835-1851.
	
Lee, E., et al. (2003). "RacB regulates cytoskeletal function in Dictyostelium spp." Euk. Cell 2: 474-485.
	
Laevsky, G. and D. A. Knecht (2003). "Cross-linking of actin filaments by myosin II is a major contributor to cortical integrity and cell motility in restrictive environments." J. Cell Sci. 116: 3761-3770.
	
Kubohara, Y., et al. (2003). "DIF-1, an anti-tumor substance found in Dictyostelium discoideum, inhibits progesterone-induced oocyte maturation in Xenopus laevis." Eur. J. Pharmacol. 460: 93-98.
	
Ksiazek, D., et al. (2003). "Structure of the N-terminal domain of the adenylyl cyclase-associated protein (CAP) from Dictyostelium discoideum." Structure 11: 1171-1178.
	
Krishnan, J. and P. A. Iglesias (2003). "Analysis of the signal transduction properties of a module of spatial sensing in eukaryotic chemotaxis." Bull. Math. Biol. 65: 95-128.
	
Kriebel, P. W., et al. (2003). "Adenylyl cyclase localization regulates streaming during chemotaxis." Cell 112: 549-560.
	
Kollmar, M. and G. Glockner (2003). "Identification and phylogenetic analysis of Dictyostelium discoideum kinesin proteins." BMC Genetics 4:47: 11 pages.
	
Kitayama, C. and T. Q. R. Uyeda (2003). "ForC, a novel type of formin family protein lacking an FH1 domain, is involved in multicellular development in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 116: 711-723.
	
King, J. and R. H. Insall (2003). "Parasexual genetics of Dictyostelium gene disruptions: identification of a ras pathway using diploids." BMC Genetics 4:12: 14 pages.
	
Kimmel, A. R. and C. A. Parent (2003). The signal to move: D. discoideum go orienteering. Science. 300: 1525-1527.
	
Kimmel, A. R. and C. A. Parent (2003). Dictyostelium discoideum cAMP receptor, G protein-independent pathways. http://stke.sciencemag.org/cgi/cm/stkecm;CMP_11471.
	
Kimmel, A. R. and C. A. Parent (2003). Dictyostelium discoideum cAMP chemotaxis pathway. http://stke.sciencemag.org/cgi/cm/CMP_7918.
	
Kimmel, A. R. and C. A. Parent (2003). G protein-independent 7 transmembrane receptor signaling. http://stke.sciencemag.org/cgi/cm/stkecm;CMP_11470.
	
Kibler, K., et al. (2003). "A cell-adhesion pathway regulates intercellular communication during Dictyostelium development." Dev. Biol. 264: 506-521.
	
Kibler, K., et al. (2003). "A novel developmental mechanism in Dictyostelium revealed in a screen for communication mutants." Dev. Biol. 259: 193-208.
	
Kessin, R. H. (2003). Cell Motility: Making streams. Nature. 422: 481-482.
	
Kaushik, S. and V. Nanjundiah (2003). "Evolutionary questions raised by cellular slime mold development." Proc. Indian Natl. Sci. Acad. B69: 825-852.
	
Katoch, B. and R. Begum (2003). "Biochemical basis of the high resistance to oxidative stress in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biosci. 28: 581-588.
	
Kanai, M., et al. (2003). "Differentiation-inducing factor-1 (DIF-1) inhibits STAT3 activity involved in gastric cancer cell proliferation via MEK-ERK-dependent pathway." Oncogene 22: 548-554.
	
Kalavrizioti, D., et al. (2003). "Kinetics of inhibition of ribonuclease P activity by peptidyltransferase inhibitors - Effect of antibiotics on RNase P." Mol. Biol. Reports 30: 9-14.
	
Johnson, J. D., et al. (2003). Receptor tyrosine kinase with a discoidin-type binding domain. USA: 15 pages.
	A breast carcinoma tyrosine phosphoprotein, DDR (Discoidin Domain Receptor), that defines a novel class of receptor tyrosine kinases is presented. The DDR cDNA predicts a polypeptide C-terminal tyrosine kinase domain and an N-terminal domain similar to the Dictyostelium discoideum lectin discoidin I. These domains are connected by an extraordinary hydrophilic proline/glycine-rich domain, which is interrupted by a predicted transmembrane sequence. This extended proline/glycine-rich region suggests an unusual geometry of interaction with ligand or substrates. Discoidin I-type domains may interact with specific cell surface molecules.

Jaiswal, J. K. and V. Nanjundiah (2003). "Calcium regulates the expression of a Dictyostelium discoideum aspariginyl tRNA synthetase gene." J. Biosci. 28: 697-707.
	
Jaiswal, J. K., et al. (2003). "Long-term multiple color imaging of live cells using quantum dot bioconjugates." Nature Biotechnol. 21: 47-51.
	
Ito, K., et al. (2003). "Requirement of domain-domain interaction for conformational change and functional ATP hydrolysis in myosin." J. Biol. Chem. 278: 31049-31057.
	
Ishikawa, J., et al. (2003). "Phagocytosis of Dictyostelium discoideum studied by the particle-tracking method." Exp. Cell Res. 288: 268-276.
	
Iranfar, N., et al. (2003). "Genome-wide expression analyses of gene regulation during early development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Euk. Cell 2: 664-670.
	
Insall, R. (2003). Dictyostelium chemotaxis: fascism through the back door? Curr. Biol. 13: R353-R354.
	
Inouye, K. (2003). Control of cell-type proportions and pattern formation in the cellular slime mould. Diversity and evolution of the shape of living things. T. Sekimura, S. Noji and R. Morita. Tokyo, Shokabo: 232-242.
	
Inouye, K. (2003). Pattern formation by cell movement in closely-packed tissues. Morhogenesis and pattern formation in biological systems. T. Sekimura, S. Noji, N. Ueno and P. K. Maini. Tokyo, Springer Verlag: 191-202.
	
Iglesias, P. A. (2003). "Feedback control in intracellular signaling pathways: regulating chemotaxis in Dictyostelium discoideum." Eur. J. Control 9: 227-236.
	
Huang, Y. E., et al. (2003). "Receptor-mediated regulation of PI3Ks confines PI(3,4,5)P3 to the leading edge of chemotaxing cells." Mol. Biol. Cell 14: 1913-1922.
	
Huang, X. H., et al. (2003). "Purification and properties of the Dictyostelium calpain-like protein, Cpl." Biochemistry 42: 1789-1795.
	
Hosoya, K., et al. (2003). "Unique behavior and function of the mitochondrial ribosomal protein S4 (RPS4) in early Dictyostelium development." Zool. Sci. 20: 1455-1465.
	
Hitt, A. L., et al. (2003). "Identification of a second member of the ponticulin gene family and its differential expression pattern." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1628: 79-87.
	
Harwood, A. J. and G. Agam (2003). "Search for a common mechanism of mood stabilizers." Biochem. Pharmacol. 66: 179-189.
	
Harwood, A. J. (2003). "Neurodevelopment and mood stabilizers." Curr. Mol. Med. 3: 471-481.
	
Harris, T. J. C., et al. (2003). "Cytoskeleton interactions involved in the assembly and function of glycoprotein-80 adhesion complexes in Dictyostelium." J. Biol. Chem. 278: 2614-2623.
	
Harris, T. J. C. (2003). The structure and assembly of gp80 cell adhesion complexes in Dictyostelium. Toronto, Ont., Canada, University of Toronto: 229.
	
Hagiwara, H. (2003). "Dictyostelids from Japan. XII. Dictyostelium gloeosporum, a new species from the grounds of the imperial palace, Tokyo." Bull. Natl. Sci. Mus. Tokyo, Ser. B 29: 127-132.
	
Hachikubo, Y., et al. (2003). "Roles of the hydrophobic triplet in the motor domain of myosin in the interaction between myosin and actin." J. Biochem. 134: 165-171.
	
Graf, R., et al. (2003). "Regulated expression of the centrosomal protein DdCP224 affects microtubule dynamics and reveals mechanisms for the control of supernumerary centrosome number." Mol. Biol. Cell 14: 4067-4074.
	
Good, J. R., et al. (2003). "TagA, a putative serine protease/ABC transporter of Dictyostelium that is required for cell fate determination at the onset of development." Development 130: 2953-2965.
	
Gomer, R. and D. Brazill (2003). The versatile Dictyostelium discoideum - Meeting report: international Dictyostelium conference 2002. Protist. 154: 5-10.
	
Golstein, P., et al. (2003). "Cell-death alternative model organisms: why and which?" Nature Rev. Mol. Cell Biol. 4: 798-807.
	
Gojkovic, Z., et al. (2003). "Dihydropyrimidine amidohydrolases and dihydroorotases share the same origin and several enzymatic properties." Nucl. Acids Res. 31: 1683-1692.
	
Gloss, A., et al. (2003). "Villidin, a novel WD-repeat and villin-related protein from Dictyostelium, is associated with membranes and the cytoskeleton." Mol. Biol. Cell 14: 2716-2727.
	
Gilson, P. R., et al. (2003). "Two Dictyostelium orthologs of the prokaryotic cell division protein TfsZ localize to mitochondria and are required for the maintenance of normal mitochondrial morphology." Euk. Cell 2: 1315-1326.
	
Gerisch, G. and A. Muller-Taubenberger (2003). "GFP-fusion proteins as fluorescent reporters to study cell organelle and cytoskeleton dynamics in chemotaxis and phagocytosis." Meth. Enzymol. 361: 320-337.
	
Geiger, J., et al. (2003). "Human polymorphonuclear leukocytes respond to waves of chemoattractant, like Dictyostelium." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 56: 27-44.
	
Garcia, M. X. U., et al. (2003). "The Dictyostelium discoideum prespore-specific catalase B functions to control late development and to protect spore viability." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1641: 55-64.
	
Furukawa, R., et al. (2003). "Calcium regulation of actin crosslinking is important for function of the actin cytoskeleton in Dictyostelium." J. Cell Sci. 116: 187-196.
	
Funamoto, S., et al. (2003). "cAMP-dependent protein kinase regulates Polysphondylium pallidum development." Differentiation 71: 51-61.
	
Fukuzawa, M., et al. (2003). "The Dictyostelium prestalk cell inducer DIF regulates nuclear accumulation of a STAT protein by controlling its rate of export from the nucleus." Development 130: 797-804.
	
Frank, S. A. (2003). "Perspective: repression of competition and the evolution of cooperation." Evolution 57: 693-705.
	
Fortunato, A., et al. (2003). "Co-occurrence in nature of different clones of the social amoeba, Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Ecol. 12: 1031-1038.
	
Fortunato, A., et al. (2003). "A linear dominance hierarchy among clones in chimeras of the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Evol. Biol. 16: 438-445.
	
Follstaedt, S. C., et al. (2003). "Temporal and spatial expression of ammonium transporter genes during growth and development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 71: 557-566.
	
Fisher, P. R. (2003). Phototaxis: microbial. Encyclopedia of Life Sciences, Wiley Interscience (John Wiley and Sons).
	Phototaxis in its broadest sense is light-regulated movement of motile organisms (microorganisms in the case of microbial phototaxis), usually resulting in their attraction to (positive phototaxis) or avoidance of (negative phototaxis) illuminated regions.


Fang, R., et al. (2003). "IfkA, a preumptive eIFalpha kinase of Dictyostelium, is required for proper timing of asggregation and regulation of mound size." BMC Dev. Biol. 3:3: 19 pages.
	
Falk, D. L., et al. (2003). "Shared, unique and redundant functions of three members of the class I myosins (MyoA, MyoB and MyoF) in motility and chemotaxis in Dictyostelium." J. Cell Sci. 116: 3985-3999.
	
Fahrni, J. F., et al. (2003). "Phylogeny of lobose amoebae based on actin and small-subunit ribosomal RNA genes." Mol. Biol. Evol. 20: 1881-1886.
	
Escalante, R., et al. (2003). "Dictyostelium discoideum developmentally regulated genes whose expression is dependent on MADS box transcription factor SrfA." Euk. Cell 2: 1327-1335.
	
Eristi, C. M. (2003). Investigation of transcriptional regulation of 5'-nucleotidase in Dictyostelium discoideum. Blacksburg, VA, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University: 147.
	
Ennis, H. L., et al. (2003). "Mutation of the Dictyostelium fbxA gene affects cell-fate decisions and spatial patterning." Protist 154: 419-429.
	
Eichinger, L. and A. A. Noegel (2003). "Crawling into a new era - the Dictyostelium genome project." EMBO J. 22: 1941-1946.
	
Eichinger, L. (2003). "Revamp a model - status and prospects of the Dictyostelium genome project." Curr. Genet. 44: 59-72.
	
Drengk, A., et al. (2003). "A coat of filamentous actin prevents clustering of late-endosomal vacuoles in vivo." Curr. Biol. 13: 1814-1819.
	
Dormann, D. and C. J. Weijer (2003). "Chemotactic cell movement during development." Curr. Opin. Genet. Devel. 13: 358-364.
	
Dolak, Y. and T. Hillen (2003). "Cattaneo models for chemosensitive movement." J. Math. Biol. 46: 153-170.
	
Devreotes, P. and C. Janetopoulos (2003). "Eukaryotic chemotaxis: distinctions between directional sensing and polarization." J. Biol. Chem. 278: 20445-20448.
	
Decave, E., et al. (2003). "Shear flow-induced motility of Dictyostelium discoideum cells on solid substrate." J. Cell Sci. 116: 4331-4343.
	
De Lozanne, A. (2003). "The role of BEACH proteins in Dictyostelium." Traffic 4: 6-12.
	
de la Roche, M. A., et al. (2003). "The Dictyostelium class I myosin, MyoD, contains a novel light chain that lacks high-affinity calcium-binding sites." Biochem. J. 374: 697-705.
	
Darley, C. P., et al. (2003). "Expression of a family of expansin-like proteins during the development of Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 546: 416-418.
	
Dannat, K., et al. (2003). "Effects of medicinal compounds on the differentiation of the eukaryotic microorganism Dictyostelium discoideum: can this model be used as a screening test for reproductive toxicity in humans?" Pharmazie 58: 204-210.
	
Crespi, B. and S. Springer (2003). Social slime molds meet their match. Science. 299: 56-57.
	
Conibear, P. B., et al. (2003). "Myosin cleft movement and its coupling to actomyosin dissociation." Nature Struct. Biol. 10: 831-835.
	
Chen, L. F., et al. (2003). "Two phases of actin polymerization display different dependencies on PI(3,4,5)P-3 accumulation and have unique roles during chemotaxis." Mol. Biol. Cell 14: 5028-5037.
	
Cervoni, L., et al. (2003). "Quaternary structure of Dictyostelium discoideum nucleoside diphosphate kinase counteracts the tendency of monomers to form a molten globule." Biochemistry 42: 14599-14605.
	
Brock, D. A., et al. (2003). "CF45-1, a secreted protein which participates in Dictyostelium group size regulation." Euk. Cell 2: 788-797.
	
Brock, D. A., et al. (2003). "Two components of a secreted cell number-counting factor bind to cells and have opposing effects on cAMP signal transduction in Dictyostelium." J. Biol. Chem. 278: 52262-52272.
	
Bosgraaf, L. and P. J. M. van Haastert (2003). "Roc, a Ras/GTPase domain in complex proteins." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1643: 5-10.
	
Bonner, J. T. (2003). "On the origin of differentiation." J. Biosci. 28: 523-528.
	
Bonner, J. T. (2003). "Evolution of development in the cellular slime molds." Evol. Devel. 5: 305-313.
	
Bloomfield, G. and C. Pears (2003). "Superoxide signalling required for multicellular development of Dictyostelium." J. Cell Sci. 116: 3387-3397.
	
Blagg, S. L., et al. (2003). "PIR121 regulates pseudopod dynamics and SCAR activity in Dictyostelium." Curr. Biol. 13: 1480-1487.
	
Blaauw, M., et al. (2003). "Phosducin-like proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum: implications for the phosducin family of proteins." EMBO J. 22: 5047-5057.
	
BIES (2003). Interview with J.T. Bonner. Bioessays. 25: 727-733.
	
Beshay, U., et al. (2003). "Cultivation of Dictyostelium discoideum in immobilized form by colonization of porous supports." Process Biochem. 38: 1521-1529.
	
Beshay, U., et al. (2003). "Analysis of the behaviour of Dictyostelium discoideum in immobilised state by means of continuous cultivation." Bioprocess Biosyst. Eng. 26: 117-122.
	
Benghezal, M., et al. (2003). "Synergistic control of cellular adhesion by transmembrane 9 proteins." Mol. Biol. Cell 14: 2890-2899.
	
Aubry, L., et al. (2003). "The novel ankyrin-repeat containing kinase ARCK-1 acts as a suppressor of the Spalten signaling pathway during Dictyostelium development." Dev. Biol. 263: 308-322.
	
Araki, T., et al. (2003). "A STAT-regulated, stress-induced signalling pathway in Dictyostelium." J. Cell Sci. 116: 2907-2915.
	
Andrioli, L. P. M., et al. (2003). "Dictyostelium discoideum protein phosphatase-1 catalytic subunit exhibits distinct biochemical properties." Biochem. J. 373: 703-711.
	
Alibaud, L., et al. (2003). "Dictyostelium discoideum transformation by oscillating electric field electroporation." Biotechniques 35: 78-83.
	
Alexander, S., et al. (2003). "Proteomics opens doors to the mechanisms of developmentally regulated secretion." Mol. Cell. Proteomics 2: 1156-1163.
	
Alexander, H., et al. (2003). "Viability assay for Dictyostelium for use in drug studies." Biotechniques 35: 464-470.
	
Alber, M. S., et al. (2003). On cellular automation approaches to modeling biological cells. Mathematical systems theory in biology, communications, computation, and finance. J. Rosenthal and D. S. Gilliam. New York, Springer-Verlag. 134: 1-39.
	
Abysalh, J. C., et al. (2003). "The identification of Pats1, a novel gene locus required for cytokinesis in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Biol. Cell 14: 14-25.
	
Abe, T., et al. (2003). "Rapid generation of gene disruption constructs by in vitro transposition and identification of a Dictyostelium protein kinase that regulates its rate of growth and development." Nucl. Acids Res. 31: E107 (110 pages).
	
(2003). Superoxide: the route to multicellularity? J. Cell Sci. 116: e1603.
	
Zhao, M., et al. (2002). "Genetic analysis of the role of G protein-coupled receptor signaling in electrotaxis." J. Cell Biol. 157: 921-927.
	
Zhang, N., et al. (2002). "Ege A, a novel C2 domain containing protein, is essential for GPCR-mediated gene expression in Dictyostelium." Dev. Biol. 248: 1-12.
	
Zhang, N. (2002). Signaling in chemotaxis and development. Baltimore, MD, The Johns Hopkins University: 123.
	
Zhang, M. (2002). Constitutively active cAMP receptor mutants dominantly inhibit receptor-mediated signaling pathways in Dictyostelium discoideum. Houston, TX, The Univ. of Texas H.S.C. at Houston Grad. School of Biomed. Sci.: 124.
	
Zhang, H., et al. (2002). "Phosphorylation of the myosin regulatory light chain plays a role in motility and polarity during Dictyostelium chemotaxis." J. Cell Sci. 115: 1733-1747.
	
Yokoyama, K., et al. (2002). "Design and functional analysis of actomyosin motor domain chimera proteins." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 299: 825-831.
	
Wong, E. F. S. (2002). Characterization of the calcium-dependent cell adhesion molecule DdCAD-1 in Dictyostelium discoideum. Toronto, ON (Canada), University of Toronto: 226.
	
Wong, E., et al. (2002). "Disruption of the gene encoding the cell adhesion molecule DdCAD-1 leads to aberrant cell sorting and cell-type proportioning during Dictyostelium development." Development 129: 3839-3850.
	
Winckler, T., et al. (2002). "Dictyostelium mobile elements: strategies to amplify in a compact genome." Cell. Mol. Life Sci. 59: 2097-2111.
	
Williams, R. S. B., et al. (2002). "A common mechanism of action for three mood-stabilizing drugs." Nature 417: 292-295.
	
West, C. M., et al. (2002). "Outside-in signaling of cellulose synthesis by a spore coat protein in Dictyostelium." Euk. Cell 1: 281-292.
	
West, C. M., et al. (2002). "Complex glycosylation of Skp1 in Dictyostelium: implications for the modification of other eukaryotic cytoplasmic and nuclear proteins." Glycobiology 12: 17R-27R.
	
Weitzman, J. B. (2002). Dictyostelium chromosome. Sequencing of the largest chromosome of the slime mold Dictyostelium reveals a very high gene density. The Scientist www.the-scientist.com: July 4.
	
Weber, I., et al. (2002). "A talin fragment as an actin trap visualizing actin flow in chemotaxis, endocytosis, and cytokinesis." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 53: 136-149.
	
Weber, I. and G. Gerisch (2002). Cortexillins. Wiley Encyclopedia of Molecular Medicine, Wiley. 5: 914-916.
	
Webb, C. M. (2002). Analysis of cis and trans elements regulating cbpA expression in Dictyostelium. York, Ont., Canada, York University: 131.
	
Wang, N., et al. (2002). "BEACH family of proteins: phylogenetic and functional analysis of six Dictyostelium BEACH proteins." J. Cell. Biochem. 86: 561-570.
	
Wang, J. (2002). Structural and functional characterization of the cell adhesion molecule gp150 in Dictyostelium discoideum. Toronto, ON (Canada), University of Toronto: 231.
	
Wang, B. and A. Kuspa (2002). "CulB, a putative ubiquitin ligase subunit, regulates prestalk cell differentiation and morphogenesis in Dictyostelium spp." Euk. Cell 1: 126-136.
	
Wakelin, S., et al. (2002). "Engineering Dictyostelium discoideum myosin II for the introduction of site-specific fluorescence probes." J. Muscle Res. Cell Motil. 23: 673-683.
	
Vicker, M. G. (2002). "Eukaryotic cell locomotion depends on the propagation of self-organized reaction-diffusion waves and oscillations of actin filament assembly." Exp. Cell Res. 275: 54-66.
	
Vicker, M. G. (2002). "F-actin assembly in Dictyostelium cell locomotion and shape oscillations propagates as a self-organized reaction-diffusion wave." FEBS Lett. 510: 5-9.
	
Varney, T. R., et al. (2002). "A novel disintegrin domain protein affects early cell type specification and pattern formation in Dictyostelium." Development 129: 2381-2389.
	
Varney, T. R., et al. (2002). "A novel Dictyostelium gene encoding multiple repeats of adhesion inhibitor-like domains has effects on cell-cell and cell-substrate adhesion." Dev. Biol. 243: 226-248.
	
VanDriessche, N., et al. (2002). "A transcriptional profile of multicellular development in Dictyostelium discoideum." Development 129: 1543-1552.
	
van der Wel, H., et al. (2002). "Molecular cloning and expression of a UDP-N-acetylglucosamine (GlcNAc):hydroxyproline polypeptide GlcNAc-transferase that modifies Skp1 in the cytoplasm of Dictyostelium." J. Biol. Chem. 277: 46328-46337.
	
van der Wel, H., et al. (2002). "A bifunctional diglycosyltransferase forms the Fucalpha1,2Gal,beta1,3-disaccharide on Skp1 in the cytoplasm of Dictyostelium." J. Biol. Chem. 277: 46527-46534.
	
Uyeda, T. Q. P., et al. (2002). "Evidence for a novel, strongly bound acto-S1 complex carrying ADP and phosphate stabilized in the G680V mutant of Dictyostelium myosin II." Biochemistry 41: 9525-9534.
	
Uyeda, T. Q. P., et al. (2002). "Amino acids 519-524 of Dictyostelium myosin II form a surface loop that aids actin binding by facilitating a conformational change." J. Muscle Res. Cell Motil. 23: 685-695.
	
Urushihara, H. (2002). "Functional genomics of the social amoebae, Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cells (Molecules and Cells) 13: 1-4.
	
Umeda, T. and K. Inouye (2002). "Possible role of contact following in the generation of coherent motion of Dictyostelium cells." J. Theor. Biol. 219: 301-308.
	
Ubeidat, M. and C. L. Rutherford (2002). "Expression and one-step purification of a developmentally regulated protein from Dictyostelium discoideum." Prot. Expr. Purif. 25: 472-480.
	
Ubeidat, M., et al. (2002). "Expression pattern of alkaline phosphatase in Dictyostelium." Mech. Devel. 117: 351-355.
	
Ubeidat, M., et al. (2002). "Expression pattern of 5'-nucleotidase in Dictyostelium." Mech. Devel. 110: 237-239.
	
Turner, J. R. G. (2002). Remembrance of molds past. John Tyler Bonner provides a firsthand account of 20th-century biology. New York Times Book Review. June 16.
	
Tsuji, A., et al. (2002). "Copper/zinc superoxide dismutases in Dictyostelium discoideum: amino acid sequences and expression kinetics." J. Biochem. Mol. Biol. Biophys. 6: 215-220.
	
Tsiavaliaris, G., et al. (2002). "Mutations in the relay loop region result in dominant-negative inhibition of myosin II function in Dictyostelium." EMBO Rep. 3: 1099-1105.
	
Tomsig, J. L. and C. E. Creutz (2002). "Copines: a ubiquitous family of Ca(2+)-dependent phospholipid-binding proteins." Cell Mol Life Sci 59(9): 1467-1477.
	The copines are a novel family of ubiquitous Ca(2+)-dependent, phospholipid-binding proteins. They contain two Ca(2+)- and phospholipid-binding domains known as 'C2 domains' present in proteins such as protein kinase C, phospholipase C and synaptotagmin. Copines are thought to be involved in membrane-trafficking phenomena because of their phospholipid-binding properties. They may also be involved in protein-protein interactions since they contain a domain similar to the protein-binding 'A domain' of integrins. The biochemistry, gene structure, tissue distribution and possible biological roles of copines are discussed, including recent observations with Arabidopsis that indicate that copines may be involved in cell division and growth.

Todoriki, M., et al. (2002). "Unique colony housing the coexisting Escherichia coli and Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Phys. 28: 793-797.
	
Todoriki, M., et al. (2002). "An observation of the initial stage towards a symbiotic relationship." Biosystems 65: 105-112.
	
Thompson, R. F. and G. M. Langford (2002). "Myosin superfamily evolutionary history." Anat. Record 268: 276-289.
	
Thompson, C. R. L. and M. S. Bretscher (2002). "Cell polarity and locomotion, as well as endocytosis, depend on NSF." Development 129: 4185-4192.
	
Thomason, P. A. (2002). Dictyostelium in focus. Nature Cell Biol. 4: E13.
	
Tang, L., et al. (2002). "A cell number-counting factor regulates the cytoskeleton and cell motility in Dictyostelium." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 99: 1371-1376.
	
Tang, L. (2002). A cell number-counting factor regulates group size in Dictyostelium discoideum. Houston, TX, Rice University: 124.
	
Tan, M. W. and F. M. Ausubel (2002). "Alternative models in microbial pathogens." Mol. Cell. Microbiol. 31: 461-475.
	
Tan, M. W. (2002). "Cross-species infections and their analysis." Annu. Rev. Microbiol. 56: 539-565.
	
Taminato, A., et al. (2002). "Role for YakA, cAMP, and protein kinase A in regulation of stress responses of Dictyostelium discoideum cells." Mol. Biol. Cell 13: 2266-2275.
	
Takeda, K., et al. (2002). "A novel Dictyostelium Cdk8 is required for aggregation, but is dispensable for growth." Devel. Growth Differ. 44: 213-223.
	
Takaoka, N., et al. (2002). "Element analysis of the Polysphondylium pallidum gp64 promoter." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1574: 304-310.
	
Szabo, C. M., et al. (2002). "An investigation of bone resorption and Dictyostelium discoideum growth inhibition by bisphosphonate drugs." J. Medicinal Chem. 45: 2894-2903.
	
Swanson, A. R., et al. (2002). "Taxonomy, slime molds, and the questions we ask." Mycologia 94: 968-979.
	
Swanson, A. R. and F. W. Spiegel (2002). Ecological succession of Dictyostelids on the Island of Hawai'i. Icsem 4.
	
Suzuki, Y., et al. (2002). "Imaging of the fluorescence spectrum of a single fluorescent molecule by prism-based spectroscopy." FEBS Lett. 512: 235-239.
	
Sutoh, K. (2002). "Functional diversity of myosin motors." Tanpakushitsu Kakusan Koso 47: 1165-1173.
	
Steinert, M., et al. (2002). Interaction of Legionella pneumophila with Dictyostelium discoideum. Legionella - Proceedings of the Fifth International Symposium. R. Marre, Y. Abu Kwaik, C. Bartlett et al. Washington, DC, ASM Press: 161-164.
	
Steimle, P. A., et al. (2002). "Lamellipodial localization of Dictyostelium myosin heavy chain kinase A is mediated via F-actin binding by the coiled-coil domain." FEBS Lett. 516: 58-62.
	
Sroka, J., et al. (2002). "Folic acid, ascorbic acid and sodium selenite restore the motility of Dictyostelium discoideum inhibited by triethyllead." Toxicology 180: 275-292.
	
Soll, D. R., et al. (2002). "A contextual framework for characterizing motility and chemotaxis mutants in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Muscle Res. Cell Motil. 23: 659-672.
	
Soldati, T., et al. (2002). The hen and the egg problem: myosin and actin polymerisation. 151st meeting SGM.
	
Sobko, A., et al. (2002). "Regulated SUMOylation and ubiquitination of DdMEK1 is required for proper chemotaxis." Dev. Cell 2: 745-756.
	
Sluse, F. E. and W. Jarmuszkiewicz (2002). "Uncoupling proteins outside the animal and plant kingdoms: functional and evolutionary aspects." FEBS Lett. 510: 117-120.
	
Skriwan, C., et al. (2002). "Various bacterial pathogens and symbionts infect the amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum." Int. J. Med. Microbiol. 291: 615-624.
	
Shu, S., et al. (2002). "Tail chimeras of Dictyostelium myosin II support cytokinesis and other myosin II activities but not full development." J. Cell Sci. 115: 4237-4249.
	
Shim, K. C., et al. (2002). "Occurrence and distribution of cellular slime molds in South Korea." Korean J. Ecol. 25: 51-58.
	
Shaw, C. A., et al. (2002). cDNA microarray analysis of Dictyostelium development. EMBS BMES 2002: second joint EMBS/BMES conference.
	
Shaulsky, G. and W. F. Loomis (2002). "Gene expression patterns in Dictyostelium using microarrays." Protist 153: 93-98.
	
Sharma, S. K., et al. (2002). "The Cdk5 homologue, Crp, regulates endocytosis and secretion in Dictyostelium and is necessary for optimum growth and differentiation." Dev. Biol. 247: 1-10.
	
Semirale, A. A. (2002). The heterotrimeric G-protein Galpha2 from Dictyostelium discoideum: investigating mechanisms of signal regulation. Orono, ME, University of Maine: 138.
	
Schneider, B., et al. (2002). "Nucleotide affinity for a stable phosphorylated intermediate of nucleoside diphosphate kinase." Prot. Sci. 11: 1648-1656.
	
Schaap, P. (2002). Survival by cAMP in social amoebae: an intersection between eukaryotic and prokaryotic signaling systems. Microbiol. Today. 29: 136-138.
	
Sawai, S., et al. (2002). "Rapid patterning and zonal differentiation in a two-dimensional Dictyostelium cell mass: the role of pH and ammonia." J. Exp. Biol. 205: 2583-2590.
	
Sasik, R., et al. (2002). "Extracting transcriptional events from temporal gene expression patterns during Dictyostelium development." Bioinformatics 18: 61-66.
	
Sasaki, N., et al. (2002). "Dictyostelium myosin II as a model to study the actin-myosin interactions during force generation." J. Muscle Res. Cell Motil. 23: 697-702.
	
Saran, S., et al. (2002). "cAMP signaling in Dictyostelium - Complexity of cAMP synthesis, degradation and detection." J. Muscle Res. Cell Motil. 23: 793-802.
	
Santamaria, B., et al. (2002). "Creation of an allosteric phosphofructokinase starting with a nonallosteric enzyme - The case of Dictyostelium discoideum phosphofructokinase." J. Biol. Chem. 277: 1210-1216.
	
Sameshima, M., et al. (2002). "Electron microscopy of actin rods and bundles in Dictyostelium discoideum by high-pressure freezing." J. Electron Microsc. 51: 337-340.
	
Sakurai, M. H., et al. (2002). "Galactose-containing polysaccharides from Dictyostelium mucoroides as possible acceptor molecules for cell-type specific galactosyl transferase." Compar. Biochem. Physiol. 132B: 541-549.
	
Sako, Y. and T. Uyemura (2002). "Total internal reflection fluorescence microscopy for single-molecule imaging in living cells." Cell Struct. Funct. 27: 357-365.
	
Rubin, H. and S. Ravid (2002). "Polarization of myosin II heavy chain-protein kinase C in chemotaxing Dictyostelium cells." J. Biol. Chem. 277: 36005-36008.
	
Roelofs, J. and P. J. M. van Haastert (2002). "Deducing the origin of soluble adenylyl cyclase, a gene lost in multiple lineages." Mol. Biol. Evol. 19: 2239-2246.
	
Roelofs, J. and P. J. M. van Haastert (2002). "Characterization of two unusual guanylyl cyclases from Dictyostelium." J. Biol. Chem. 277: 9167-9174.
	
Robinson, D. N., et al. (2002). "Dynacortin is a novel actin bundling protein that localizes to dynamic actin structures." J. Biol. Chem. 277: 9088-9095.
	
Robinson, D. N., et al. (2002). "Dictyostelium cytokinesis: from molecules to mechanics." J. Muscle Res. Cell Motil. 23: 719-727.
	
Robinson, D. N., et al. (2002). "Quantitation of the distribution and flux of myosin-II during cytokinesis." BMC Cell Biol. 3:4: 13 pages.
	
Rivero, F. and B. P. Somesh (2002). "Signal transduction pathways regulated by Rho GTPases in Dictyostelium." J. Muscle Res. Cell Motil. 23: 737-749.
	
Rivero, F., et al. (2002). "Defects in cytokinesis, actin reorganization and the contractile vacuole in cells deficient in RhoGDI." EMBO J. 21: 4539-4549.
	
Rivero, F. (2002). "mRNA processing in Dictyostelium: sequence requirements for termination and splicing." Protist 153: 169-176.
	
Rifkin, J. L. (2002). "Quantitative analysis of the behavior of Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae: stringency of pteridine reception." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 51: 39-48.
	
Reymond, C. D. and N. J. Fasel (2002). Expression vector for use in a one-step purification protocol. USA, RMF Dictagene S.A.: 21 pages/16 claims.
	High expression levels and simple downstream processing are essential for the production of recombinant proteins at low cost. We report here a new expression vector which allows production of fusion proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum. We made use of the ability of Discoidin I to bind Sepharose-4B to set up a nearly single step purification procedure. The Discoidin I coding region was fused to several forms of the malaria parasite CSP gene in a Dictyostelium expression vector, allowing intracellular accumulation as well as partial secretion via a pathway unrelated to the endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi. The fusion proteins present in cell extracts were affinity-purified over Sepharose-4B columns. Addition of a signal peptide allowed endoplasmic reticulum targeting and glycosylation of the fusion protein. Inclusion of a thrombin cleavage site allowed to cleave Discoidin from the CSP protein. The use of stable and low cost Sepharose 4B as affinity matrix should allow large-scale preparations.

Rehm, T., et al. (2002). "Letter to the editor: Sequence-specific (H-1, N-15, C-13) resonance assignment of the N-terminal domain of the cyclase-associated protein (CAP) from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biomol. NMR 23: 337-338.
	
Rehberg, M. and R. Graf (2002). "Dictyostelium EB1 is a genuine centrosomal component required for proper spindle formation." Mol. Biol. Cell 13: 2301-2310.
	
Ratner, D. L. (2002). Methods of targeting a chromosomal gene sequence in a eukaryotic cell. USA, Trustees of Amherst College. 774404: 13 pages/19 claims/10 drawing sheets.
	
Rappel, W. J., et al. (2002). "Establishing direction during chemotaxis in eukaryotic cells." Biophys. J. 83: 1361-1367.
	
Queller, D. C. and J. E. Strassman (2002). Kin selection (quick guide). Curr. Biol. 12: R832.
	
Pukatzki, S., et al. (2002). "The human pathogen Pseudomonas aeruginosa utilizes conserved virulence pathways to infect the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 99: 3159-3164.
	
Price, C. (2002). Eukaryotic microbes: something for everyone. Microbiol. Today. 29: 119.
	
Pintsch, T., et al. (2002). "Hisactophilin is involved in osmoprotection in Dictyostelium." BMC Biochem. 3:10: 8 pages.
	
Pergolizzi, B., et al. (2002). "Temperature-sensitive inhibition of development in Dictyostelium due to a point mutation in the piaA gene." Dev. Biol. 251: 18-26.
	
Parent, C. A., et al. (2002). "Regulation of adenylyl cyclases by a region outside the minimally functional cytoplasmic domains." J. Biol. Chem. 277: 1354-1360.
	
Okuwa, T., et al. (2002). "Identification of the homolog of cell-counting factor in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biochem. Mol. Biol. Biophys. 6: 351-355.
	
Neuhaus, E. M., et al. (2002). "Morphology and dynamics of the endocytic pathway in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Biol. Cell 13: 1390-1407.
	
Nebl, T., et al. (2002). "Multiple signalling pathways connect chemoattractant receptors and calcium channels in Dictyostelium." J. Muscle Res. Cell Motil. 23: 853-865.
	
Nagasaki, A., et al. (2002). "Novel myosin heavy chain kinase involved in disassembly of myosin II filaments and efficient cleavage in mitotic Dictyostelium cells." Mol. Biol. Cell 13: 4333-4342.
	
Nagasaki, A., et al. (2002). "Genetic and morphological evidence for two parallel pathways of cell-cycle-coupled cytokinesis in Dictyostelium." J. Cell Sci. 115: 2241-2251.
	
Myre, M. A. and D. H. O'Day (2002). "Nucleomorphin - A novel, acidic, nuclear calmodulin-binding protein from Dictyostelium that regulates nuclear number." J. Biol. Chem. 277: 19735-19744.
	
Myllykallio, H., et al. (2002). "An alternative flavin-dependent mechanism for thymidylate synthesis." Science 297: 105-107.
	
Murzin, A. G. (2002). DNA building block reinvented. Science. 297: 61-62.
	
Muller-Taubenberger, A., et al. (2002). "Differential localization of the Dictyostelium kinase DPAKa during cytokinesis and cell migration." J. Muscle Res. Cell Motil. 23: 751-763.
	
Morita, T., et al. (2002). "Unique behavior of a Dictyostelium homologue of TRAP-1, coupling with differentiation of D. discoideum cells." Exp. Cell Res. 280: 45-54.
	
Miura, S., et al. (2002). "Functional conservation for lipid storage droplet association among perilipin, ADRP, and TIP47 (PAT)-related proteins in mammals, Drosophila, and Dictyostelium." J. Biol. Chem. 277: 32253-32257.
	
Meima, M. E., et al. (2002). "Identification of a novel type of cGMP phosphodiesterase that is defective in the chemotactic stmF mutants." Mol. Biol. Cell 13: 3870-3877.
	
Meili, R. and R. A. Firtel (2002). Leading the way. Nature Cell Biol. 4: E171.
	
Medalia, O., et al. (2002). "Macromolecular architecture in eukaryotic cells visualized by cryoelectron tomography." Science 298: 1209-1213.
	
Maselli, A. G., et al. (2002). "Formation of Hirano bodies in Dictyostelium and mammalian cells induced by expression of a modified form of an actin-crosslinking protein." J. Cell Sci. 115: 1939-1949.
	
Maselli, A., et al. (2002). "Kinetics of binding, uptake and degradation of live fluorescent (DsRed) bacteria by Dictyostelium discoideum." Microbiology 148: 413-420.
	
Martens, H., et al. (2002). "RNAi in Dictyostelium: the role of RNA-directed RNA polymerases and double-stranded RNase." Mol. Biol. Cell 13: 445-453.
	
Maree, A. F. M. and P. Hogeweg (2002). "Modelling Dictyostelium discoideum morphogenesis: the culmination." Bull. Math. Biol. 64: 327-353.
	
Marchesini, N., et al. (2002). "Acidocalcisomes are functionally linked to the contractile vacuole of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 277: 8146-8153.
	
Maniak, M. (2002). "Conserved features of endocytosis in Dictyostelium." Int. Rev. Cytol. 221: 257-287.
	
Mangiarotti, G. and R. Giorda (2002). "Synthesis of ribosomal proteins in developing Dictyostelium discoideum cells is controlled by the methylation of proteins S24 and S31." Biochem. Cell Biol. 80: 261-270.
	
Mahler, W. R. (2002). Distribution and regulation of the Dictyostelium scar protein. Atlanta,GA, Emory University: 247.
	
Mahadeo, D. C. (2002). A network model governing spore formation, dormancy, and germination in Dictyostelium discoideum. Detroit, MI, Wayne State University: 169.
	
Maeda, Y., et al. (2002). "A checkpoint of growth/differentiation transition in the cell cycle and its relevance to pattern formation in Dictyostelium development." Recent Res. Devel. Biophys. Biochem. 2: 341-358.
	
Ma, S. and R. L. Chisholm (2002). "Cytoplasmic dynein-associated structures move bidirectionally in vivo." J. Cell Sci. 115: 1453-1460.
	
Liu, T. Y., et al. (2002). "Altered expression of the 100 kDa subunit of the Dictyostelium vacuolar proton pump impairs enzyme assembly, endocytic function and cytosolic pH regulation." J. Cell Sci. 115: 1907-1918.
	
Linder, J. U. and J. E. Schultz (2002). "Guanylyl cyclases in unicellular organisms." Mol. Cell. Biochem. 230: 149-158.
	
Lim, C. J., et al. (2002). "Cytoskeletal regulation by Dictyostelium Ras subfamily proteins." J. Muscle Res. Cell Motil. 23: 729-736.
	
Lim, C. J. (2002). The Ras subfamily protein, RasC, is required for the aggregation of Dictyostelium discoideum. Vancouver, BC, Canada, University of British Columbia: 129.
	
Liang, W., et al. (2002). "Differential localization in cells of myosin II heavy chain kinases during cytokinesis and polarized migration." BMC Cell Biol. 3:19: 16 pages.
	
Li, Y., et al. (2002). "Plant expansins are a complex multigene family with an ancient evolutionary origin." Plant Physiol. 128: 854-864.
	
Levi, S., et al. (2002). "Myosin II dynamics in Dictyostelium: determinants for filament assembly and translocation to the cell cortex during chemoattractant responses." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 53: 177-188.
	
Levchenko, A. and P. A. Iglesias (2002). "Models of eukaryotic gradient sensing: application to chemotaxis of amoebae and neutrophils." Biophys. J. 82: 50-63.
	
Lee, K. J., et al. (2002). "cAMP waves in Dictyostelium territories." Nonlinearity 15: C1-C5.
	
Lee, E. and D. A. Knecht (2002). "Visualization of actin dynamics during macropinocytosis and exocytosis." Traffic 3: 186-192.
	
Landolt, J. C. and S. L. Stephenson (2002). Neotropical cellular slime molds. Some recent collections. Icsem 4.
	
Landolt, J. C., et al. (2002). Cellular slime molds of the Great Smoky Mountains National Park, U.S.A. Icsem 4.
	
Landi, M. (2002). Reproductive conflicts in the social wasp, Eustenogaster fraterna, and in the social amoeba, Distyostelium discoideum. Houston, TX, Rice University: 121.
	
Kuwayama, H., et al. (2002). "PCR-mediated generation of a gene disruption construct without the use of DNA ligase and plasmid vectors." Nucl. Acids Res. 30: U14-U18.
	
Kuwayama, H., et al. (2002). "A novel PCR-mediated method for one-tube generation of a gene disruption construct." Biotechnol. Lett. 24: 1307-1312.
	
Kuramoto, N., et al. (2002). "Existence of xenobiotic response element binding in Dictyostelium." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1578: 1-11.
	
Kuno, M., et al. (2002). "Effects of differentation-inducing factor-1 (DIF-1) of Dictyostelium discoideum on bacteria, fungi, and an influenza virus." Kitakanto Med. J. 52: 253-256.
	
Kumar, A. and S. Chatterjee (2002). "Mitogenic stimulation in isoproterenol treated cells of Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Biol. Int. 26: 85-91.
	
Kuehn, M. J. (2002). Surrogate host succumbs to virulent Pseudomonas. Trends Microbiol. 10: 215.
	
Kreppel, L. and A. R. Kimmel (2002). Genomic database resources for Dictyostelium discoideum. Nucl. Acids Res. 30: 84-86.
	
Kovacs, M., et al. (2002). "Analysis of nucleotide binding to Dictyostelium myosin II motor domains containing a single tryptophan near the active site." J. Biol. Chem. 277: 28459-28467.
	
Kotsifas, M., et al. (2002). "Chaperonin 60 and mitochondrial disease in Dictyostelium." J. Muscle Res. Cell Motil. 23: 839-852.
	
Korohoda, W., et al. (2002). "Diverse chemotactic responses of Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae in the developing (Temporal) and stationary (Spatial) concentration gradients of folic acid, cAMP, Ca2+ and Mg2+." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 53: 1-25.
	
Koonce, M. P. and A. Khodjakov (2002). "Dynamic microtubules in Dictyostelium." J. Muscle Res. Cell Motil. 23: 613-619.
	
Kollmar, M., et al. (2002). "Crystal structure of the motor domain of a class-I myosin." EMBO J. 21: 2517-2525.
	
Knetsch, M. L. W., et al. (2002). "Expression vectors for studying cytoskeletal proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Muscle Res. Cell Motil. 23: 605-611.
	
Klopfenstein, D. R., et al. (2002). "Kinesin motors and microtubule-based organelle transport in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Muscle Res. Cell Motil. 23: 631-638.
	
Klockow, B., et al. (2002). "The dynamin A ring complex: molecular organization and nucleotide-dependent conformation changes." EMBO J. 21: 240-250.
	
Kim, L., et al. (2002). "Receptor-dependent and tyrosine phosphatase-mediated inhibition of GSK3 regulates cell fate choice." Dev. Cell 3: 523-532.
	
Kikuchi, H., et al. (2002). "The isolation and synthesis of two novel N-acetyl glucosamine derivatives from Dietyostelium cellular slime molds which exhibit neurite outgrowth activity." Tetrahedron Lett. 43: 1477-1480.
	
Khurana, T., et al. (2002). "LIM proteins: association with the actin cytoskeleton." Protoplasma 219: 1-12.
	
Khurana, B., et al. (2002). "Functions of LIM proteins in cell polarity and chemotactic motility." EMBO J. 21: 5331-5342.
	
Kay, R. R. (2002). "Chemotaxis and cell differentiation in Dictyostelium." Curr. Opin. Microbiol. 5: 575-579.
	
Kay, R. (2002). "Another road to making embryonic pattern." Biologist 49: 261-264.
	
Kawli, T., et al. (2002). "Correlates of developmental cell death in Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 70: 272-281.
	
Kawakami, S. I. and H. Hagiwara (2002). "Two mating groups of Polysphondylium pallidum, a dictyostelid cellular slime mold." Mycoscience 43: 453-457.
	
Kawabe, Y., et al. (2002). "A putative serpentine receptor gene tasA required for normal morphogenesis of primary stalk and branch structure in Polysphondylium pallidum." Gene 285: 291-299.
	
Kany, H., et al. (2002). "Myosin II from rabbit skeletal muscle and Dictyostelium discoideum and its interaction with F-actin studied by 1H NMR spectroscopy." FEBS Lett. 521: 121-126.
	
Kang, R. J., et al. (2002). "Evidence for a role for the Dictyostelium Rap1 in cell viability and the response to osmotic stress." J. Cell Sci. 115: 3675-3682.
	
Kang, K. M. and N. K. Chang (2002). "A taxonomic study of the family Dictyosteliaceae based on ribosomal DNA sequences." Pak. J. Bot. 34: 441-448.
	
Jarmuszkiewicz, W., et al. (2002). "Uncoupling protein and alternative oxidase of Dictyostelium discoideum: occurrence, properties and protein expression during vegetative life and starvation-induced early development." FEBS Lett. 532: 459-464.
	
Janin, J. and D. Deville-Bonne (2002). "Nucleoside-diphosphate kinase: structural and kinetic analysis of reaction pathway and phosphohistidine intermediate." Meth. Enzymol. 354: 118-134.
	
Jang, W., et al. (2002). "A secreted cell number counting factor represses intracellular glucose levels to regulate group size in Dictyostelium." J. Biol. Chem. 277: 39202-39208.
	
Janetopoulos, C. and P. Devreotes (2002). "Monitoring receptor-mediated activation of heterotrimeric G-proteins by fluorescence resonance energy transfer." Methods 27: 366-373.
	
Imai, K., et al. (2002). "A Rho GDP-dissociation inhibitor is involved in cytokinesis of Dictyostelium." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 296: 305-312.
	
Iijima, M., et al. (2002). "Temporal and spatial regulation of chemotaxis." Dev. Cell 3: 469-478.
	
Iijima, M. and P. Devreotes (2002). "Tumor suppressor PTEN mediates sensing of chemoattractant gradients." Cell 109: 599-610.
	
Ichetovkin, I. E. (2002). Cofilin and Arp2/3 complex in the initiation of lamellipodia protrusion. New York, NY, Yeshiva University: 136.
	
Hutter, M. C. and V. Helms (2002). "The mechanism of phosphorylation of natural nucleosides and anti-HIV analogues by nucleoside diphosphate kinase is independent of their sugar substituents." Chembiochem 3: 643-651.
	
Hubberstey, A. V. and E. P. Mottillo (2002). "Cyclase-associated proteins: CAPacity for linking signal transduction and actin polymerization." FASEB J. 16: 487-499.
	
Hou, S. X., et al. (2002). "The JAK/STAT pathway in model organisms: emerging roles in cell movement." Dev. Cell 3: 765-778.
	
Hogeweg, P. (2002). "Computing an organism: on the interface between informatic and dynamic processes." Biosystems 64: 97-109.
	
Hofmann, A., et al. (2002). "Crystallization of cyclase-associated protein from Dictyostelium discoideum." Acta Cryst. Section D 58: 1858-1861.
	
Hitt, A. L., et al. (2002). "Development of a fluorescent F-actin blot overlay assay for detection of F-actin binding proteins." Anal. Biochem. 310: 67-71.
	
Heuner, K., et al. (2002). "Influence of the alternative rho28 factor on virulence and flagellum expression of Legionella pneumophila." Inf. Immun. 70: 1604-1608.
	
Hestermann, A., et al. (2002). "Centrosomal microtubule plus end tracking proteins and their role in Dictyostelium cell dynamics." J. Muscle Res. Cell Motil. 23: 621-630.
	
Harris, T. J. C. and C. H. Siu (2002). "Reciprocal raft-receptor interactions and the assembly of adhesion complexes." Bioessays 24: 996-1003.
	
Harris, E., et al. (2002). "Dictyostelium LvsB mutants model the lysosomal defects associated with Chediak-Higashi syndrome." Mol. Biol. Cell 13: 656-669.
	
Harris, E. and J. Cardelli (2002). "RabD, a Dictyostelium Rab14-related GTPase, regulates phagocytosis and homotypic phagosome and lysosome fusion." J. Cell Sci. 115: 3703-3713.
	
Hancock, M. K., et al. (2002). "Localization of the carbohydrate recognition sites of the insulin-like growth factor II/mannose 6-phosphate receptor to domains 3 and 9 of the extracytoplasmic region." J. Biol. Chem. 277: 47205-47212.
	
Han, Y. H., et al. (2002). "Requirement of a vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein family member for cell adhesion, the formation of filopodia, and chemotaxis in Dictyostelium." J. Biol. Chem. 277: 49877-49887.
	
Hagiwara, H. and S. Kawakami (2002). "Dictyostelids from Mikurajima Island and Hachijojima Island, Izu Islands, Japan." Mem. Natl. Sci. Mus. Tokyo 38: 57-64.
	
Gurumurthy, Y. and S. Chatterjee (2002). "Inhibition of endocytic functions in Dictyostelium discoideum treated with a carbamate pesticide." Indian J. Exp. Biol. 40: 187-191.
	
Guerin, N. A. and D. A. Larochelle (2002). "A user's guide to restriction enzyme-mediated integration in Dictyostelium." J. Muscle Res. Cell Motil. 23: 597-604.
	
Graf, R. (2002). "DdNek2, the first non-vertebrate homologue of human Nek2, is involved in the formation of microtubule-organizing centers." J. Cell Sci. 115: 1919-1929.
	
Gotthardt, D., et al. (2002). "High-resolution dissection of phagosome maturation reveals distinct membrane trafficking phases." Mol. Biol. Cell 13: 3508-3520.
	
Gomer, R., et al. (2002). "Cell motility mediates tissue size regulation in Dictyostelium." J. Muscle Res. Cell Motil. 23: 809-815.
	
Goldbeter, A. and D. Claude (2002). "Time-patterned drug administration: insights from a modeling approach." Chronobiol. Int. 19: 157-175.
	
Goldbeter, A. (2002). "Computational approaches to cellular rhythms." Nature 420: 238-245.
	
Goldberg, J. M., et al. (2002). "Identification of four candidate cGMP targets in Dictyostelium." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 99: 6749-6754.
	
Glockner, G., et al. (2002). "Sequence and analysis of chromosome 2 of Dictyostelium discoideum." Nature 418: 79-85.
	
Gerisch, G., et al. (2002). "Tubular-vesicular transformation in the contractile vacuole system of Dictyostelium." Cell Biol. Int. 26: 845-852.
	
Gerald, N. J., et al. (2002). "The Dictyostelium LvsA protein is localized on the contractile vacuole and is required for osmoregulation." Traffic 3: 50-60.
	
Gauthier, M. L. (2002). Calmodulin-binding proteins in Dictyostelium chemotaxis and breast cancer cell spreading. Toronto, Ont., Canada, University of Toronto: 153.
	
Garcia, M. X. U., et al. (2002). "Methanol and acriflavine resistance in Dictyostelium are caused by loss of catalase." Microbiology 148: 333-340.
	
Gao, T., et al. (2002). "Cells respond to and bind countin, a component of a multisubunit cell number counting factor." J. Biol. Chem. 277: 32596-32605.
	
Gallois-Montbrun, S., et al. (2002). "Improving nucleoside diphospate kinase for antiviral nucleotide analogs activation." J. Biol. Chem. 277: 39953-39959.
	
Funamoto, S., et al. (2002). "Spatial and temporal regulation of 3-phosphoinositides by PI 3-kinase and PTEN mediates chemotaxis." Cell 109: 611-623.
	
Fukuzawa, M. and J. G. Williams (2002). "OSBPa, a predicted oxysterol binding protein of Dictyostelium, is required for regulated entry into culmination." FEBS Lett. 527: 37-42.
	
Fukui, Y. (2002). "Mechanistics of amoeboid locomotion: signal to forces." Cell Biol. Int. 26: 933-944.
	
Fraser, E., et al. (2002). "Identification of the Axin and Frat binding region of glycogen synthase kinase-3." J. Biol. Chem. 277: 2176-2185.
	
Foster, K. R., et al. (2002). "The costs and benefits of being a chimera." Proc. R. Soc. Lond. B 269: 2357-2362.
	
Fortunato, A. (2002). Evolutionary conflict in chimeras of the social amoeba, Dictyostelium discoideum. Houston, TX, Rice University: 75.
	
Firtel, R. and A. Kimmel (2002). "The leading edge: PI3K is essential for macropinosome formation." Trends Genet. 18: 15-16.
	
Fields, S. D., et al. (2002). "Mitochondrial membrane dynamics are altered in cluA(-) mutants of Dictyostelium." J. Muscle Res. Cell Motil. 23: 829-838.
	
Fey, P., et al. (2002). "SadA, a novel adhesion receptor in Dictyostelium." J. Cell Biol. 159: 1109-1119.
	
Fechheimer, M., et al. (2002). Hirano bodies in health and disease. Trends Mol. Med. 8: 590-591.
	
Farbrother, P., et al. (2002). "Comparison of probe preparation methods for DNA microarrays." Biotechniques 33: 884-888.
	
Fan, Y. C., et al. (2002). "Notes on dictyostelid cellular slime molds of Taiwan (I): Dictyostelium minutum and Dictyostelium clavatum." Taiwania 47: 31-36.
	
Falugi, C., et al. (2002). "Cholinesterase activity and effects of its inhibition by neurotoxic drugs in Dictyostelium dioscoideum." Chemosphere 48: 407-414.
	
Faix, J. (2002). "The actin-bundling protein cortexillin is the downstream target of a Rac1-signaling pathway required for cytokinesis." J. Muscle Res. Cell Motil. 23: 765-772.
	
Escalante, R. and L. Sastre (2002). "Regulated expression of the MADS-box transcription factor SrfA mediates activation of gene expression by protein kinase A during Dictyostelium sporulation." Mech. Devel. 117: 201-208.
	
Duhon, D. and J. Cardelli (2002). "The regulation of phagosome maturation in Dictyostelium." J. Muscle Res. Cell Motil. 23: 803-808.
	
Dormann, D., et al. (2002). "Visualizing PI3 kinase-mediated cell-cell signaling during Dictyostelium development." Curr. Biol. 12: 1178-1188.
	
Dormann, D., et al. (2002). "Becoming multicellular by aggregation; the morphogenesis of the social amoebae Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Phys. 28: 765-780.
	
Dormann, D., et al. (2002). "Simultaneous quantification of cell motility and protein-membrane-association using active contours." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 52: 221-230.
	
Deery, W. J., et al. (2002). "A single cell density-sensing factor stimulates distinct signal transduction pathways through two different receptors." J. Biol. Chem. 277: 31972-31979.
	
Decave, E., et al. (2002). "Shear flow-induced detachment kinetics of Dictyostelium discoideum cells from solid substrate." Biophys. J. 82: 2383-2395.
	
Decave, E., et al. (2002). "Peeling process in living cell movement under shear flow." Phys. Rev. Lett. 89: 108101-108101/108101-108104.
	
de la Roche, M. A., et al. (2002). "Dictyostelium discoideum has a single diacylglycerol kinase gene with similarity to mammalian theta isoforms." Biochem. J. 368: 809-815.
	
de la Roche, M. A., et al. (2002). "Signaling pathways regulating Dictyostelium myosin II." J. Muscle Res. Cell Motil. 23: 703-718.
	
Daunderer, C. and R. Graf (2002). "Molecular analysis of the cytosolic Dictyostelium gamma-tubulin complex." Eur. J. Cell Biol. 81: 175-184.
	
Cosson, P., et al. (2002). "Pseudomonas aeruginosa virulence analyzed in a Dictyostelium discoideum host system." J. Bact. 184: 3027-3033.
	
Cornillon, S., et al. (2002). "Two members of the beige/CHS (BEACH) family are involved at different stages in the organization of the endocytic pathway in Dictyostelium." J. Cell Sci. 115: 737-744.
	
Comer, F. I. and C. A. Parent (2002). "PI 3-kinases and PTEN: how opposites chemoattract." Cell 109: 541-544.
	
Coates, J. C., et al. (2002). "Loss of the beta-catenin homologue aardvark causes ectopic stalk formation in Dictyostelium." Mech. Devel. 116: 117-127.
	
Clarke, M., et al. (2002). "Endosome fusion and microtubule-based dynamics in the early endocytic pathway of Dictyostelium." Traffic 3: 791-800.
	
Clarke, M., et al. (2002). "Dynamics of the vacuolar H+-ATPase in the contractile vacuole complex and the endosomal pathway of Dictyostelium cells." J. Cell Sci. 115: 2893-2905.
	
Clark, J. D., et al. (2002). "The effects of dictyostelids on the formation and maturation of myxomycete plasmodia." Mycologia 94: 933-938.
	
Chung, C. Y. and R. A. Firtel (2002). "Signaling pathways at the leading edge of chemotaxing cells." J. Muscle Res. Cell Motil. 23: 773-779.
	
Chubb, J. R., et al. (2002). "Pseudopodium dynamics and rapid cell movement in Dictyostelium Ras pathway mutants." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 53: 150-162.
	
Chin, G. (2002). New host for old pathogen. Science. 295: 2179.
	
Chavrier, P. (2002). May the force be with you: myosin-X in phagocytosis. Nature Cell Biol. 4: E169-E171.
	
Cavender, N. D., et al. (2002). Comparison of cellular slime mold populations on three Caribbean islands. Icsem 4.
	
Cavender, J. C., et al. (2002). "Dictyostelid cellular slime moulds in the forests of New Zealand." New Zealand J. Bot. 40: 235-264.
	
Casademunt, E., et al. (2002). "A gene encoding a novel anti-adhesive protein is expressed in growing cells and restricted to anterior-like cells during development of Dictyostelium." Differentiation 70: 23-35.
	
Canaves, J. M. and S. S. Taylor (2002). "Classification and phylogenetic analysis of the cAMP-dependent protein kinase regulatory subunit family." J. Mol. Evol. 54: 17-29.
	
Burlando, B., et al. (2002). "Occurrence of Cu-ATPase in Dictyostelium: possible role in resistance to copper." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 291: 476-483.
	
Brzostowski, J. A., et al. (2002). "Galpha-mediated inhibition of developmental signal response." Curr. Biol. 12: 1199-1208.
	
Bruckert, F., et al. (2002). "Dictyostelium discoideum adhesion and motility under shear flow: experimental and theoretical approaches." J. Muscle Res. Cell Motil. 23: 651-658.
	
Brock, D. A., et al. (2002). "The different components of a multisubunit cell number-counting factor have both unique and overlapping functions." Development 129: 3657-3668.
	
Bretschneider, T., et al. (2002). "Dynamic organization of the actin system in the motile cells of Dictyostelium." J. Muscle Res. Cell Motil. 23: 639-649.
	
Brandon, M. A., et al. (2002). "Galpha3 and protein kinase A represent cross-talking pathways for gene expression in Dictyostelium discoideum." Devel. Growth Differ. 44: 457-465.
	
Brabek, J., et al. (2002). "Expression of protein tyrosine kinase pp60(V-src) variants in Dictyostelium discoideum." Folia Biologica 48: 73-76.
	
Bowers-Morrow, V. M., et al. (2002). "Cell adhesion during the migratory slug stage of Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Biol. Int. 26: 951-962.
	
Bosgraaf, L. and P. J. M. van Haastert (2002). "A model for cGMP signal transduction in Dictyostelium in perspective of 25 years of cGMP research." J. Muscle Res. Cell Motil. 23: 781-791.
	
Bosgraaf, L., et al. (2002). "Identification and characterization of two unusual cGMP-stimulated phosphodiesterases in Dictyostelium." Mol. Biol. Cell 13: 3878-3889.
	
Bosgraaf, L., et al. (2002). "A novel cGMP signalling pathway mediating myosin phosphorylation and chemotaxis in Dictyostelium." EMBO J. 21: 4560-4570.
	
Bonner, J. T. (2002). Lives of a biologist.  Adventures in a century of extraordinary science. Cambridge, Mass., Harvard University Press.
	
Bogdanovic, A., et al. (2002). "Syntaxin 7, syntaxin 8, Vti1 and VAMP7 (Vesicle-associated membrane protein 7) form an active SNARE complex for early macropinocytic compartment fusion in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. J. 368: 29-39.
	
Blumberg, D. D., et al. (2002). "AmpA, a modular protein containing disintegrin and ornatin domains, has multiple effects on cell adhesion and cell fate specification." J. Muscle Res. Cell Motil. 23: 817-828.
	
Blanton, R. L. (2002). Dictyostelium: evolution, cell biology, and development of multicellularity (R.H. Kessin). Inoculum (Suppl. Mycologia). 53(2): 18-19.
	
Bishop, J. D., et al. (2002). "A second UDP-glucose pyrophosphorylase is required for differentiation and development in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 277: 32430-32437.
	
Benoit, M. and H. E. Gaub (2002). "Measuring cell adhesion forces with the atomic force microscope at the molecular level." Cells Tiss. Organs 172: 174-189.
	
Benoit, M. (2002). "Cell adhesion measured by force spectroscopy on living cells." Meth. Cell Biol. 68: 91-114.
	
Beck, P., et al. (2002). "Transfer RNA gene-targeted retrotransposition of Dictyostelium TRE5-A into a chromosomal UMP synthase gene trap." J. Mol. Biol. 318: 273-285.
	
Bavley, A. (2002). Sublime slime. Illumination. 6(1) - Spring: 14-17.
	
Bapteste, E., et al. (2002). "The analysis of 100 genes supports the grouping of three highly divergent amoebae: Dictyostelium, Entamoeba, and Mastigamoeba." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 99: 1414-1419.
	
Bankir, L., et al. (2002). "Extracellular cAMP inhibits proximal reabsorption: are plasma membrane cAMP receptors involved?" Am. J. Physiol. Renal Physiol. 282: F376-F392.
	
Aubry, L., et al. (2002). "Biochemical characterization of two analogues of the apoptosis-linked gene 2 protein in Dictyostelium discoideum and interaction with a physiological partner in mammals, murine alix." J. Biol. Chem. 277: 21947-21954.
	
Arisue, N., et al. (2002). "The phylogenetic position of the pelobiont Mastigamoeba balamuthi based on sequences of rDNA and translation elongation factors EF-1 alpha and EF-2." J. Euk. Microbiol. 49: 1-10.
	
Anjard, C., et al. (2002). "Evolutionary analyses of ABC transporters of Dictyostelium discoideum." Euk. Cell 1: 643-652.
	
Amyere, M., et al. (2002). "Origin, originality, functions, subversions and molecular signalling of macropinocytosis." Int. J. Med. Microbiol. 291: 487-494.
	
Amagai, A. (2002). "Involvement of a novel gene, zyg1, in zygote formation of Dictyostelium mucoroides." J. Muscle Res. Cell Motil. 23: 867-874.
	
Allen, R. D. and Y. Naitoh (2002). "Osmoregulation and contractile vacuoles of protozoa." Int. Rev. Cytol. 215: 351-394.
	
Akaza, Y., et al. (2002). "Analysis of the gene encoding copper/zinc superoxide dismutase homolog in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biol. Pharmaceut. Bull. 25: 1528-1532.
	
Agarwal, M., et al. (2002). "The three-dimensional model of Dictyostelium discoideum racE based on the human rhoA-GDP crystal structure." J. Mol. Graphics Model. 21: 3-18.
	
Adam, M., et al. (2002). "Genetic approaches to programmed cell death: achievements and questions." Medecine Sci. 18: 831-840.
	
(2002). Alzheimer's, other diseases, may benefit from first live studies of key cell structures. NSF Press Release. April 29: 3 pages.
	
Zupan, B., et al. (2001). Abductive inference of genetic networks. Artificial Intelligence in Medicine. S. Quaglini, P. Barahona and S. Andreassen, Springer. 2101: 304-313.
	
Zippin, J. H., et al. (2001). "CO2/HCO3--responsive soluble adenylyl cyclase as a putative metabolic sensor." Trends Endocrinol. Metabolism 12: 366-370.
	
Zhang, P., et al. (2001). "Spore coat formation and timely sporulation depend on cellulose in Dictyostelium." Differentiation 67: 72-79.
	
Zhang, N., et al. (2001). "Ggamma in Dictyostelium: its role in localization of Gbetagamma to the membrane is required for chemotaxis in shallow gradients." Mol. Biol. Cell 12: 3204-3213.
	
Zeng, C. J., et al. (2001). "Interaction of gdt1 and protein kinase A (PKA) in the growth-differentiation-transition in Dictyostelium." Differentiation 67: 25-32.
	
Yumura, S. (2001). "Myosin II dynamics and cortical flow during contractile ring formation in Dictyostelium cells." J. Cell Biol. 154: 137-145.
	
Yuan, A., et al. (2001). "Calcium requirement for efficient phagocytosis by Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Calcium 29: 229-238.
	
Yuan, A. and C. P. Chia (2001). "Giant vacuoles observed in Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Biol. Int. 25: 147-155.
	
Yoshida, K. and K. Inouye (2001). "Myosin II-dependent cylindrical protrusions induced by quinine in Dictyostelium: antagonizing effects of actin polymerization at the leading edge." J. Cell Sci. 114: 2155-2165.
	
Xu, X. X. S., et al. (2001). "During multicellular migration, myosin II serves a structural role independent of its motor function." Dev. Biol. 232: 255-264.
	
Wyllie, A. H. and P. Golstein (2001). More than one way to go. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA. 98: 11-13.
	
Winckler, T., et al. (2001). "Gene function analysis by amber stop codon suppression: CMBF is a nuclear protein that supports growth and development of Dictyostelium amoebae." J. Mol. Biol. 305: 703-714.
	
Williams, J. (2001). A Dictyostelium anthology. Trends Genet. 17: 358-359.
	
Wilkins, A. and R. H. Insall (2001). "Small GTPases in Dictyostelium: lessons from a social amoeba." Trends Genet. 17: 41-48.
	
Whitfield, J. (2001). Amoben kennen keine Skrupel. Der Tagesspiegel. May 9: 28.
	
Weitzman, J. B. (2001). No horizontal transfer. Phylogenetic analysis refutes previous suggestions that there was extensive horizontal gene transfer from bacteria to vertebrates. The Scientist www.the-scientist.com: June 21.
	
Weijer, C. J. and J. G. Williams (2001). Dictyostelium: cell sorting and patterning. Encyclopedia of Life Sciences, Wiley Interscience (John Wiley and Sons).
	Multicellular development of the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum results from the starvation induced chemotactic aggregation of single cells to form a fruiting body consisting of a stalk supporting a spore mass

Weber, I. (2001). "On the mechanism of cleavage furrow ingression in Dictyostelium." Cell Struct. Funct. 26: 577-584.
	
Wang, Y. Z., et al. (2001). "Cellulose-binding modules from extracellular matrix proteins of Dictyostelium discoideum stalk and sheath." Eur. J. Biochem. 268: 4334-4345.
	
Verkerke-van Wijk, I., et al. (2001). "Adenylyl cyclase A expression is tip-specific in Dictyostelium slugs and directs StatA nuclear translocation and CudA gene expression." Dev. Biol. 234: 151-160.
	
Varney, T. R. (2001). Modulation of cell adhesion, cell type differentiation and developmental progression by the Dictyostelium discoideum protein AmpA. Baltimore, MD, Univ. of Maryland Baltimore County: 223.
	
van Es, S., et al. (2001). "Tortoise, a novel mitochondrial protein, is required for directional responses of Dictyostelium in chemotactic gradients." J. Cell Biol. 152: 621-632.
	
van Es, S., et al. (2001). "The protein kinase YakA regulates G-protein-linked signaling responses during growth and development of Dictyostelium." J. Biol. Chem. 276: 30761-30765.
	
van Dijken, P. and P. J. M. van Haastert (2001). "Phospholipase Cdelta regulates germination of Dictyostelium spores." BMC Cell Biol. 2:25: 7 pages.
	
van der Wel, H., et al. (2001). "A non-golgi alpha1,2-fucosyltransferase that modifies Skp1 in the cytoplasm of Dictyostelium." J. Biol. Chem. 276: 33952-33963.
	
Ueda, M., et al. (2001). "Single-molecule analysis of chemotactic signaling in Dictyostelium cells." Science 294: 864-867.
	
Tuxworth, R. I., et al. (2001). "A role for myosin VII in dynamic cell adhesion." Curr. Biol. 11: 318-329.
	
Tsujioka, M., et al. (2001). "Spatial expression patterns of genes involved in cyclic AMP responses in Dictyostelium discoideum development." Devel. Growth Differ. 43: 275-283.
	
Tsuji, A., et al. (2001). "Endonuclease IV homolog from Dictyostelium discoideum: sequencing and functional expression in AP endonuclease-deficient Escherichia coli." Mutation Res. 486: 53-57.
	
Traincard, F., et al. (2001). "Addition and correction: the NF-kappa3-like DNA binding activity observed in Dictyostelium nuclear extracts is due to the GBF transcription factor." J. Cell Sci. 114: 3767-3769.
	
Toma, T. (2001). Chemotactic blockbuster. Real-time images show how single fluorescent-labeled cAMP molecules bind to their receptors on living Dictyostelium amoebae. The Scientist www.the-scientist.com: October 31.
	
Tatischeff, I., et al. (2001). "Inhibition of multicellular development switches cell death of Dictyostelium discoideum towards mammalian-like unicellular apoptosis." Eur. J. Cell Biol. 80: 428-441.
	
Tang, L., et al. (2001). "A cell number-counting factor regulates group size in Dictyostelium by differentially modulating cAMP-induced cAMP and cGMP pulse sizes." J. Biol. Chem. 276: 27663-27669.
	
Takaya, Y., et al. (2001). "Novel aromatic substances, dictyomedin A and B, from Dictyostelium cellular slime molds and their inhibitory effects on Dictyostelium development." Tetrahedron Lett. 42: 61-63.
	
Takahashi, M., et al. (2001). "Functional characterization of vertebrate nonmuscle myosin IIB isoforms using Dictyostelium chimeric myosin II." J. Biol. Chem. 276: 1034-1040.
	
Takahashi, A., et al. (2001). "Differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum vegetative cells into spores during earth orbit in space." Adv. Space Res. 28: 549-553.
	
Tabata, K., et al. (2001). "Myb-binding site regulates the expression of glucosamine-6-phosphate isomerase in Dictyostelium discoideum." Devel. Growth Differ. 43: 583-589.
	
Sutherland, B. W., et al. (2001). "A Ras subfamily GTPase shows cell cycle-dependent nuclear localization." EMBO Rep. 2: 1024-1028.
	
Sutherland, B. W. (2001). Investigation of the function of the Dictyostelium discoideum RasB protein. Vancouver, BC (Canada), The Univ. of British Columbia: 151.
	
Stossel, T. P., et al. (2001). "Filamins as integrators of cell mechanics and signalling." Nature Rev. Mol. Cell Biol. 2: 138-145.
	
Stevens, B. A., et al. (2001). "The carboxyl terminus of Dictyostelium discoideum protein 1I encodes a functional glycosyl-phosphatidylinositol signal sequence." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1511: 317- 329.
	
Stevens, B. A., et al. (2001). "Control elements of Dictyostelium discoideum prespore specific gene 3B." Differentiation 68: 92-105.
	
Steimle, P. A., et al. (2001). "Recruitment of a myosin heavy chain kinase to actin-rich protrusions in Dictyostelium." Curr. Biol. 11: 708-713.
	
Steimle, P. A., et al. (2001). "WD repeat domains target Dictyostelium myosin heavy chain kinases by binding directly to myosin filaments." J. Biol. Chem. 276: 6853-6860.
	
Stathopoulos, C., et al. (2001). "Extensive deproteinization of Dictyostelium discoideum RNase P reveals a new catalytic activity." Eur. J. Biochem. 268: 2134-2140.
	
Stanhope, M. J., et al. (2001). "Phylogenetic analyses do not support horizontal gene transfers from bacteria to vertebrates." Nature 411: 940-944.
	
Srinivasan, S., et al. (2001). "Proteomic analysis of a developmentally regulated secretory vesicle." Proteomics 1: 1119-1127.
	
Soll, D. R., et al. (2001). "Computer-assisted systems for the analysis of amoeboid cell motility." Meth. Mol. Biol. 161: 45-58.
	
Skruzny, M., et al. (2001). "Cyclophilins of a novel subfamily interact with SNW/SKIP coregulator in Dictyostelium discoideum and Schizosaccharomyces pombe." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1521: 146-151.
	
Shih, W. M. and J. A. Spudich (2001). "The myosin relay helix to converter interface remains intact throughout the actomyosin ATPase cycle." J. Biol. Chem. 276: 19491-19494.
	
Senda, S., et al. (2001). "Recruitment of a specific amoeboid myosin I isoform to the plasma membrane in chemotactic Dictyostelium cells." J. Biol. Chem. 276: 2898-2904.
	
Segel, L. A. (2001). Computing an organism. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA. 98: 3639-3640.
	
Secko, D. M., et al. (2001). "RasG regulates discoidin gene expression during Dictyostelium growth." Exp. Cell Res. 266: 135-141.
	
Seastone, D. J., et al. (2001). "The WASp-like protein Scar regulates macropinocytosis, phagocytosis and endosomal membrane flow in Dictyostelium." J. Cell Sci. 114: 2673-2683.
	
Seager, J. H. J., et al. (2001). "Identification of novel elements which regulate the cell-type specificity of Dictyostelium 7E gene expression." Differentiation 68: 22-30.
	
Schneider, B., et al. (2001). "Mechanism of phosphoryl transfer by nucleoside diphosphate kinase - pH dependence and role of the active site Lys16 and Tyr56 residues." Eur. J. Biochem. 268: 1964-1971.
	
Schlatterer, C., et al. (2001). "Calcium stores in differentiated Dictyostelium discoideum: prespore cells sequester calcium more efficiently than prestalk cells." Cell Calcium 29: 171-182.
	
Schenk, P. W., et al. (2001). "Lysophosphatidic acid- and Gbeta-dependent activation of Dictyostelium MAP kinase ERK2." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 282: 765-772.
	
Sassi, S., et al. (2001). "Analysis of Skp1 glycosylation and nuclear enrichment in Dictyostelium." Glycobiology 11: 283-295.
	
Sasik, R., et al. (2001). Percolation clustering: a novel approach to the clustering of gene expression patterns in Dictyostelium development. Biocomputing 2001: Proceedings of the Pacific Symposium Mauna Lani, Hawaii, USA, 3-7 January 2000. R. B. Altman, A. K. Dunker, L. Hunker, K. Lauderdale and T. E. Klein. Singapore, World Scientific Publ. Comp., Inc.
	
Sameshima, M., et al. (2001). "The formation of actin rods composed of actin tubules in Dictyostelium discoideum spores." J. Struct. Biol. 136: 7-19.
	
Sakurai, M., et al. (2001). "Mutational analyses of Dictyostelium IQGAP-related protein GAPA: possible interaction with small GTPases in cytokinesis." Biosci. Biotechnol. Biochem. 65: 1912-1916.
	
Rupper, A. C., et al. (2001). "p110-related PI 3-kinases regulate phagosome-phagosome fusion and phagosomal pH through a PKB/Akt dependent pathway in Dictyostelium." J. Cell Sci. 114: 1283-1295.
	
Rupper, A. C. (2001). The role of PI 3-kinases and PI 3-kinase effectors in both macropinocytosis and phagosomal maturation in Dictyostelium discoideum. Shreveport, LA, Louisiana State University Health Sciences Center: 260.
	
Rupper, A., et al. (2001). "Sequential activities of phosphoinositide 3-kinase, PKB/Akt, and Rab7 during macropinosome formation in Dictyostelium." Mol. Biol. Cell 12: 2813-2824.
	
Rupper, A., et al. (2001). "Rab7 regulates phagosome maturation in Dictyostelium." J. Cell Sci. 114: 2449-2460.
	
Rupper, A. and J. Cardelli (2001). "Regulation of phagocytosis and endo-phagosomal trafficking pathways in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1525: 205-216.
	
Ruff, C., et al. (2001). "Single-molecule tracking of myosins with genetically engineered amplifier domains." Nature Struct. Biol. 8: 226-229.
	
Roelofs, J. and P. J. M. van Haastert (2001). "Genes lost during evolution." Nature 411: 1013-1014.
	
Roelofs, J., et al. (2001). "Guanylate cyclase in Dictyostelium discoideum with the topology of mammalian adenylate cyclase." Biochem. J. 354: 697-706.
	
Roelofs, J., et al. (2001). "The Dictyostelium homologue of mammalian soluble adenylyl cyclase encodes a guanylyl cyclase." EMBO J. 20: 4341-4348.
	
Roelofs, J., et al. (2001). "GTPgammaS regulation of a 12-transmembrane guanylyl cyclase is retained after mutation to an adenylyl cyclase." J. Biol. Chem. 276: 40740-40745.
	
Rivero, F., et al. (2001). "The Dictyostelium discoideum family of Rho-related proteins." Nucl. Acids Res. 29: 1068-1079.
	
Rifkin, J. L. (2001). "Folate reception by vegetative Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae: Distribution of receptors and trafficking of ligand." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 48: 121-129.
	
Reynoso, J., et al. (2001). "Solution properties of full length and truncated forms of myosin subfragment 1 from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Muscle Res. Cell Motil. 22: 657-664.
	
Reeves, W. K. (2001). "Invertebrate and slime mold cavernicoles of Santee Cave, South Carolina, U.S.A." Proc. Acad. Nat. Sci. Philad. 151: 81-85.
	
Redowicz, M. J. (2001). "Regulation of nonmuscle myosins by heavy chain phosphorylation." J. Muscle Res. Cell Motil. 22: 163-173.
	
Ravanel, K., et al. (2001). "Membrane sorting in the endocytic and phagocytic pathway of Dictyostelium discoideum." Eur. Cell Biol. 80: 754-764.
	
Ratner, D. L. (2001). Methods of targeting a chromosomal gene sequence in a eukaryotic cell. USA, Trustees of Amherst College. 371670: 11 pages/15 claims/10 drawing sheets.
	
Rai, M. and H. Padh (2001). "Expression systems for production of heterologous proteins." Curr. Sci. 80: 1121-1128.
	
Rafols, I., et al. (2001). "Cell type proportioning in Dictyostelium slugs: lack of regulation within a 2.5-fold tolerance range." Differentiation 67: 107-116.
	
Quail, M. A. (2001). "M13 cloning of mung bean nuclease digested PCR fragments as a means of gap closure within A/T-rich, genome sequencing projects." DNA Sequence 12: 355-359.
	
Puius, Y. A. (2001). Mapping the functional surfaces of two signal transduction proteins. New York, NY, Yeshiva University: 216.
	
Primpke, G., et al. (2001). "Absence of complementation in non-allelic mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum with defects in the transition from growth to development." Mol. Genet. Genomics 266: 396-405.
	
Potma, E. O., et al. (2001). "Real-time visualization of intracellular hydrodynamics in single living cells." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 98: 1577-1582.
	
Potma, E. O., et al. (2001). "Reduced protein diffusion rate by cytoskeleton in vegetative and polarized Dictyostelium cells." Biophys. J. 81: 2010-2019.
	
Postma, M. and P. J. M. van Haastert (2001). "A diffusion-translocation model for gradient sensing by chemotactic cells." Biophys. J. 81: 1314-1323.
	
Pintsch, T., et al. (2001). "Cytosolic acidification as a signal mediating hyperosmotic stress responses in Dictyostelium discoideum." BMC Cell Biol. 2:9: 15 pages.
	
Parent, C. A. (2001). "Dictyostelium cell dynamics." Curr. Protocols Cell Biol. Chapter 12: Unit 12.15.
	
Pang, K. M., et al. (2001). "Regulated expression of myosin II heavy chain and RacB using an inducible tRNA suppressor gene." Gene 277: 187-197.
	
Palsson, E. (2001). "A three-dimensional model of cell movement in multicellular systems." Future Gener. Comput. Syst. 17: 835-852.
	
Otto, G. P. and R. H. Kessin (2001). The intriguing biology of Dictyostelium discoideum. Meeting report: international Dictyostelium conference 2001. Protist. 152: 243-248.
	
Okuwa, T., et al. (2001). "Complete sequences and expression kinetics of racG, racH, racI and racJ genes in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biol. Pharm. Bull. 24: 84-87.
	
Okuwa, T., et al. (2001). "Two cell-counting factors regulate the aggregate size of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Devel. Growth Differ. 43: 735-744.
	
Okimoto, N., et al. (2001). "Theoretical studies of the ATP hydrolysis mechanism of myosin." Biophys. J. 81: 2786-2794.
	
Ohkouchi, S., et al. (2001). "Identification and characterization of two penta-EF-hand Ca2+-binding proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biochem. 130: 207-215.
	
Novotny, J., et al. (2001). "Dictyostelium double-stranded ribonuclease." Meth. Enzymol. 342: 193-212.
	
Nobles, D. R., et al. (2001). "Cellulose in cyanobacteria. Origin of vascular plant cellulose synthase?" Plant Physiol. 127: 529-542.
	
Niemann, H. H., et al. (2001). "Crystal structure of a dynamin GTPase domain in both nucleotide-free and GDP-bound forms." EMBO J. 20: 5813-5821.
	
Nagasaki, A., et al. (2001). "Genetic approaches to dissect the mechanisms of two distinct pathways of cell cycle-coupled cytokinesis in Dictyostelium." Cell Struct. Funct. 26: 585-591.
	
Murphy, C. T., et al. (2001). "A myosin II mutation uncouples ATPase activity from motility and shortens step size." Nature Cell Biol. 3: 311-315.
	
Muller-Taubenberger, A., et al. (2001). "Calreticulin and calnexin in the endoplasmic reticulum are important for phagocytosis." EMBO J. 20: 6772-6782.
	
Mu, X. Q., et al. (2001). "CRTF is a novel transcription factor that regulates multiple stages of Dictyostelium development." Development 128: 2569-2579.
	
Mougel, C. and I. B. Zhulin (2001). "CHASE: an extracellular sensing domain common to transmembrane receptors from prokaryotes, lower eukaryotes and plants." TIBS 26: 582-584.
	
Morio, T., et al. (2001). "FebA: a gene for eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4E-binding protein (4E-BP) in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1519: 65-69.
	
Morio, T. and M. Maeda (2001). "The Dictyostelium developmental cDNA project." Tanpakushitsu Kakusan Koso 46: 2419-2424.
	
Morin, H. and J. Whitfield (2001). Moisissure sociable et transformiste, "Dictyostelium" fascine les chercheurs. Le Monde. Vendredi 6 Juillet: 20.
	
Moreno, N., et al. (2001). "The MADS-box transcription factor SRFA regulates different aspects of Dictyostelium discoideum development." Int. J. Dev. Biol. 45: S117- S118.
	
Moniakis, J., et al. (2001). "An SH2-domain-containing kinase negatively regulates the phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase pathway." Genes Devel. 15: 687-698.
	
Mohanty, S., et al. (2001). "Regulated protein degradation controls PKA function and cell-type differentiation in Dictyostelium." Genes Devel. 15: 1435-1448.
	
Michalik, M., et al. (2001). "Effects of trimethyltin on pinocytosis of Dictyostelium discoideum." Acta Protozoologica 40: 169-176.
	
May, R. C. (2001). Phg1p: Dictyostelium's first 'fork' for phagocytosis finger-food. Trends Cell Biol. 11: 55.
	
Marr, T. L. (2001). The roles of actin tyrosine phosphorylation and cellulose during dormancy and germination of various Dictyostelium discoideum mutants. Windsor, ON (Canada), University of Windsor: 164.
	
Maree, A. F. M. and P. Hogeweg (2001). How amoeboids self-organize into a fruiting body: multicellular coordination in Dictyostelium discoideum. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA. 98: 3879-3883.
	
Maniak, M. (2001). "Fluid-phase uptake and transit in axenic Dictyostelium cells." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1525: 197-204.
	
Maniak, M. (2001). "Cell adhesion: ushering in a new understanding of myosin VII." Curr. Biol. 11: R315-R317.
	
Malnasi-Csizmadia, A., et al. (2001). "Kinetic resolution of a conformational transition and the ATP hydrolysis step using relaxation methods with a Dictyostelium myosin II mutant containing a single tryptophan residue." Biochemistry 40: 12727-12737.
	
Malnasi-Csizmadia, A., et al. (2001). "The dynamics of the relay loop tryptophan residue in the Dictyostelium myosin motor domain and the origin of spectroscopic signals." J. Biol. Chem. 276: 19483-19490.
	
Maier, C. W., et al. (2001). "Specific biomembrane adhesion - Indirect lateral interactions between bound receptor molecules." Eur. Phys. J. E 6: 273-276.
	
MacWilliams, H., et al. (2001). "Biphasic expression of rnrB in Dictyostelium discoideum suggests a direct relationship between cell cycle control and cell differentiation." Differentiation 67: 12-24.
	
Ma, S., et al. (2001). "Molecular motors and membrane traffic in Dictyostelium." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1525: 234-244.
	
Luo, X., et al. (2001). "Specific phosphorylation of threonine by the Dictyostelium myosin II heavy chain kinase family." J. Biol. Chem. 276: 17836-17843.
	
Ling, A. Z., et al. (2001). "Dictyostelium discoideum plasmid containing an AP-endonuclease upstream sequence: bleomycin induction of a luciferase reporter." Env. Mol. Mutag. 38: 244-247.
	
Lindner, J., et al. (2001). "Influence of an external electric field on cAMP wave patterns in aggregating Dictyostelium discoideum." Phys. Rev. E 63: 041904 (041908 pages).
	
Lim, C. J., et al. (2001). "RasC is required for optimal activation of adenylyl cyclase and Akt/PKB during aggregation." EMBO J. 20: 4490-4499.
	
Li, G. C., et al. (2001). "Sphingosine-1-phosphate lyase has a central role in the development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Development 128: 3473-3483.
	
Levraud, J. P., et al. (2001). "Methods to study cell death in Dictyostelium discoideum." Meth. Cell Biol. 66: 469-497.
	
Leslie, M. (2001). "Anatomy of a blob." Science 293: 579.
	
Lee, K. J., et al. (2001). "Resetting wave forms in Dictyostelium territories." Phys. Rev. Lett. 87: 066101 (066104 pages).
	
Lee, J. A. (2001). Book review of: Dictyostelium: Evolution, cell biology and the development of multicellularity (R.H. Kessin). Biologist. 48 (June): 3.
	
Lee, E., et al. (2001). "The regulation of actin polymerization and cross-linking in Dictyostelium." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1525: 217-227.
	
Lee, E. and D. A. Knecht (2001). "Cytoskeletal alterations in Dictyostelium induced by expression of human cdc42." Eur. J. Cell Biol. 80: 399-409.
	
Landolt, J. (2001). Dictyostelids are slime molds too. ATBI Quarterly. 2(4): 1 page.
	
Laevsky, G. and D. A. Knecht (2001). "Under-agarose folate chemotaxis of Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae in permissive and mechanically inhibited conditions." Biotechniques 31: 1140-1149.
	
Kuwayama, H., et al. (2001). "Identification and characterization of DdPDE3, a cGMP-selective phosphodiesterase from Dictyostelium." Biochem. J. 353: 635-644.
	
Kuspa, A., et al. (2001). "The promise of a protist: the Dictyostelium genome project." Funct. Integr. Genomics 1: 279-293.
	
Kravchenko, V. V., et al. (2001). "Chemoattractants of Dictyostelium discoideum (Protozoa: Sarcomastigophora, Eumycetozoa)." Zh. Obshch. Biol. 62: 315-332.
	
Knetsch, M. L. W., et al. (2001). "The Dictyostelium Bcr/Abr-related protein DRG regulates both Rac- and Rab-dependent pathways." EMBO J. 20: 1620-1629.
	
Kliche, W., et al. (2001). "Structure of a genetically engineered molecular motor." EMBO J. 20: 40-46.
	
Kishi, Y., et al. (2001). "S-adenosyl-L-homocysteine hydrolase is sequestered into actin rods in Dictyostelium discoideum spores." FEBS Lett. 508: 433-437.
	
Kikuchi, H., et al. (2001). "Furanodictine A and B: Amino sugar analogues produced by cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum showing neuronal differentiation activity." J. Org. Chem. 66: 6982-6987.
	
Kessin, R. H. (2001). Dictyostelium - Evolution, cell biology, and the development of multicellularity. Cambridge, UK, Cambridge Univ. Press.
	
Kay, R. R. and C. R. L. Thompson (2001). "Cross-induction of cell types in Dictyostelium: evidence that DIF-1 is made by prespore cells." Development 128: 4959-4966.
	
Kawli, T. S. and S. Kaushik (2001). "Cell fate choice and social evolution in Dictyostelium discoideum: interplay of morphogens and heterogeneities." J. Biosci. 26: 130-133.
	
Kashiyama, T., et al. (2001). "Functional expression of a chimeric myosin-containing motor domain of Chara myosin and neck and tail domains of Dictyostelium myosin II." J. Mol. Biol. 311: 461-466.
	
Kanno, T., et al. (2001). "N-Methyl-D-aspartate receptor-dependent and -independent cytotoxic effects of Dictyostelium discoideum differentiation-inducing factor-1 on rat cortical neurons." Devel. Growth Differ. 43: 709-716.
	
Jung, G., et al. (2001). "The Dictyostelium CARMIL protein links capping protein and the Arp2/3 complex to type I myosins through their SH3 domains." J. Cell Biol. 153: 1479-1497.
	
Janssen, K. P. and M. Schleicher (2001). "Dictyostelium discoideum: a genetic model system for the study of professional phagocytes. Profilin, phosphoinositides and the lmp gene family in Dictyostelium." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1525: 228-233.
	
Janssen, K. P., et al. (2001). "Characterization of CD36/LIMPII homologues in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 276: 38899-38910.
	
Janetopoulos, C., et al. (2001). "Receptor-mediated activation of heterotrimeric G-proteins in living cells." Science 291: 2408-2411.
	
Jaffer, Z. M., et al. (2001). "Expression of activated Ras during Dictyostelium development alters cell localization and changes cell fate." Development 128: 907-916.
	
Iranfar, N., et al. (2001). "Expression patterns of cell-type-specific genes in Dictyostelium." Mol. Biol. Cell 12: 2590-2600.
	
Insall, R. H. (2001). The whole organism, and nothing but the organism. Cell. 107: 279-281.
	
Insall, R., et al. (2001). "Dynamics of the Dictyostelium Arp2/3 complex in endocytosis, cytokinesis, and chemotaxis." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 50: 115-128.
	
Inoue, S., et al. (2001). "Centrifuge polarizing microscope. II. Sample biological applications." J. Microsc. 201: 357-367.
	
Hsu, S. L., et al. (2001). "Dictyostelium delicatum, a new record of dictyostelid cellular slime molds to Taiwan." Taiwania 46: 199-203.
	
Hentschel, U., et al. (2001). "On the problem of establishing the subcellular localization of Dictyostelium retrotransposon TRE5-A proteins by biochemical analysis of nuclear extracts." Anal. Biochem. 296: 83-91.
	
Hata, T., et al. (2001). "Total tetra knockout of GP138 multigene family implicated in cell interactions in Dictyostelium discoideum." Gene 271: 33-42.
	
Harwood, A. J. (2001). "Signal transduction and Dictyostelium development." Protist 152: 17-29.
	
Harris, T. J. C., et al. (2001). "Assembly of glycoprotein-80 adhesion complexes in Dictyostelium - Receptor compartmentalization and oligomerization in membrane rafts." J. Biol. Chem. 276: 48764-48774.
	
Harris, T. J. C., et al. (2001). "Involvement of a Triton-insoluble floating fraction in Dictyostelium cell-cell adhesion." J. Biol. Chem. 276: 18640-18648.
	
Harris, E. N. (2001). Regulators of membrane fusion in Dictyostelium discoideum. Shreveport, LA, Louisiana State Univ. H.S.C.: 368.
	
Harris, E., et al. (2001). "Rab11-like GTPase associates with and regulates the structure and function of the contractile vacuole system in Dictyostelium." J. Cell Sci. 114: 3035-3045.
	
Hanak, P. and P. Jezek (2001). "Mitochondrial uncoupling proteins and phylogenesis - UCP4 as the ancestral uncoupling protein." FEBS Lett. 495: 137-141.
	
Han, S. I. (2001). Kultivierung von Dictyostelium discoideum auf synthetischen Medien und Analyse des Proteoms. Bielefeld, Germany, Bielefeld Univ.
	
Hadjout, N., et al. (2001). "Automated real-time measurement of chemotactic cell motility." Biotechniques 31: 1130-1138.
	
Guo, K., et al. (2001). "A Dictyostelium nuclear phosphatidylinositol phosphate kinase required for developmental gene expression." EMBO J. 20: 6017-6027.
	
Graf, R. (2001). "Isolation of centrosomes from Dictyostelium." Meth. Cell Biol. 67: 337-357.
	
Graf, R. (2001). "Maltose-binding protein as a fusion tag for the localization and purification of cloned proteins in Dictyostelium." Anal. Biochem. 289: 297-300.
	
Gomer, R. H. (2001). "Not being the wrong size." Nature Rev. Mol. Cell Biol. 2: 48-54.
	
Gojkovic, Z., et al. (2001). "Eukaryotic beta-alanine synthases are functionally related but have a high degree of structural diversity." Genetics 158: 999-1011.
	
Glockner, G., et al. (2001). "The complex repeats of Dictyostelium discoideum." Genome Res. 11: 585-594.
	
Gliksman, N. R., et al. (2001). "Myosin I phosphorylation is increased by chemotactic stimulation." J. Biol. Chem. 276: 5235-5239.
	
Giudice, G. (2001). "Conserved cellular and molecular mechanisms in development." Cell Biol. Int. 25: 1081-1090.
	
Gerald, N. J., et al. (2001). "Cytokinesis failure in clathrin-minus cells is caused by cleavage furrow instability." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 48: 213-223.
	
Gavin, R. H. (2001). "Myosins in protists." Int. Rev. Cytol. 206: 97-134.
	
Gauthier, M. L. and D. H. O'Day (2001). "Detection of calmodulin-binding proteins and calmodulin-dependent phosphorylation linked to calmodulin-dependent chemotaxis to folic and cAMP in Dictyostelium." Cell. Signal. 13: 575-584.
	
Gaudet, P., et al. (2001). "Inducible expression of exogenous genes in Dictyostelium discoideum using the ribonucleotide reductase promoter." Nucl. Acids Res. 29: e5 (page 1-6).
	
Gaudet, P. (2001). Regulation of the ribonucleotide reductase small subunit gene in Dictyostelium discoideum. Montreal, QU (Canada), Concordia University: 116.
	
Furukawa, R., et al. (2001). "Elongation factor 1beta is an actin-binding protein." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1527: 130-140.
	
Funamoto, S., et al. (2001). "Role of phosphatidylinositol 3' kinase and a downstream pleckstrin homology domain-containing protein in controlling chemotaxis in Dictyostelium." J. Cell Biol. 153: 795-809.
	
Fukuzawa, M., et al. (2001). "Tyrosine phosphorylation-independent nuclear translocation of a Dictyostelium STAT in response to DIF signaling." Mol. Cell 7: 779-788.
	
Fujimaki, S., et al. (2001). "Caspase-independent apoptosis induced by differentiation-inducing factor of Dicytostelium discoideum in INS-1 cells." Eur. J. Pharmacol. 421: 93-100.
	
Friedl, P., et al. (2001). "Amoeboid leukocyte crawling through extracellular matrix: lessons from the Dictyostelium paradigm of cell movement." J. Leukoc. Biol. 70: 491-509.
	Erratum in: J. Leukoc. Biol. 71:377(2002)

Fisher, P. R. (2001). Book review - A review of "Dictyostelium: evolution, cell biology, and the development of multicellularity", by R.H. Kessin, Cambridge U. Press, Cambridge, UK, 2001. Soil Biol. Biochem. 33: 1576-1579.
	
Fisher, P. R. (2001). Genetic analysis of phototaxis in Dictyostelium. Photomovement. D. P. Hader and M. Lebert. Amsterdam, Elsevier Science. 1: 519-559.
	
Firtel, R. A. (2001). STATs as regulators of cell fate in Dictyostelium. Trends Genet. (TIG). 17: 314.
	
Feneberg, W., et al. (2001). "Dictyostelium cells' cytoplasm as an active viscoplastic body." Eur. Biophys. J. Biophys. Lett. 30: 284-294.
	
Feit, I. N., et al. (2001). "Ammonia differentially suppresses the cAMP chemotaxis of anterior-like cells and prestalk cells in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biosci. 26: 157-166.
	
Fan, Y. C. and Z. Y. Yeh (2001). "Notes on a dictyostelid cellular slime mold new to Taiwan." BioFormosa 36: 43-46.
	
Faix, J., et al. (2001). "Recruitment of cortexillin into the cleavage furrow is controlled by Rac1 and IQGAP-related proteins." EMBO J. 20: 3705-3715.
	
Escalante, R., et al. (2001). "The MADS-box gene srfA is expressed in a complex pattern under the control of alternative promoters and is essential for different aspects of Dictyostelium development." Dev. Biol. 235: 314-329.
	
Escalante, R. and L. Sastre (2001). "cAMP and DIF-1 repress the expression of the Dictyostelium MADS-box gene srfA at early stages of development." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 285: 820-824.
	
Ensminger, P. A. (2001). Ch. 10: Dictyostelium - the amoeba and the slug. Life under the Sun. New Haven, CT, Yale Univ. Press: 116-127.
	
Early, A., et al. (2001). "Protein tyrosine phosphatase PTP1 negatively regulates Dictyostelium STATa and is required for proper cell-type proportioning." Dev. Biol. 232: 233-245.
	
Dormann, D. and C. J. Weijer (2001). "Propagating chemoattractant waves coordinate periodic cell movement in Dictyostelium slugs." Development 128: 4535-4543.
	
Dormann, D., et al. (2001). "cAMP receptor affinity controls wave dynamics, geometry and morphogenesis in Dictyostelium." J. Cell Sci. 114: 2513-2523.
	
Dormann, D., et al. (2001). "Inducible nuclear translocation of a STAT protein in Dictyostelium prespore cells: implications for morphogenesis and cell-type regulation." Development 128: 1081-1088.
	
Demsar, J., et al. (2001). "GenePath: a computer program for genetic pathway discovery from mutant data." Medinfo. 10: 956-959.
	
DeFrancesco, L. (2001). "How cells find their way. New technologies provide insight into chemotaxis." Scientist 15: 15.
	
de la Roche, M. A. and G. P. Cote (2001). "Regulation of Dictyostelium myosin I and II." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1525: 245-261.
	
de Chassey, B., et al. (2001). "Identification of clathrin-adaptor medium chains in Dictyostelium discoideum: differential expression during development." Gene 262: 115-122.
	
Daunderer, C., et al. (2001). "Dictyostelium centrin-related protein (DdCrp), the most divergent member of the centrin family, possesses only two EF hands and dissociates from the centrosome during mitosis." Eur. J. Cell Biol. 80: 621-630.
	
Dao, D. N. (2001). ChtA, an F-box protein, which regulates cell fate and formation of compartment in Dictyostelium development. New York, NY, Columbia University: 136.
	
Crespi, B. J. (2001). "The evolution of social behavior in microorganisms." Trends Ecol. Evol. 16: 178-183.
	
Crespi, B. J. (2001). "Des microorganismes <<sociaux>>? (Is there any 'social' behavior in microorganisms?)." Biofutur 2001: 51-55.
	
Conover, A. (2001). Hunting slime molds. Smithsonian Mag. 31(12): 26-30.
	
Colosimo, M. E. and E. R. Katz (2001). "Altered prestarvation response in a nystatin resistant Dictyostelium discoideum mutant." Differentiation 67: 1-11.
	
Coates, J. C. and A. J. Harwood (2001). "Cell-cell adhesion and signal transduction during Dictyostelium development." J. Cell Sci. 114: 4349-4358.
	
Chung, C. Y., et al. (2001). "Control of cell polarity and chemotaxis by Akt/PKB and PI3 kinase through the regulation of PAKa." Mol. Cell 7: 937-947.
	
Chung, C. Y., et al. (2001). "Signaling pathways controlling cell polarity and chemotaxis." TIBS 26: 557-566.
	
Chubb, J. R. and R. H. Insall (2001). "Dictyostelium: an ideal organism for genetic dissection of Ras signalling networks." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1525: 262-271.
	
Chae, S. C., et al. (2001). "Altered cell-type proportioning in Dictyostelium lacking adenosine monophosphate deaminase." Dev. Biol. 241: 183-194.
	
Cardelli, J. (2001). "Phagocytosis and macropinocytosis in Dictyostelium: phosphoinositide-based processes, biochemically distinct." Traffic 2: 311-320.
	
Cardelli, J. (2001). "Editorial." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1525: vii.
	
Brzostowski, J. A. and A. R. Kimmel (2001). "Signaling at zero G: G-protein-independent functions for 7-TM receptors." TIBS 26: 291-297.
	
Brown, J. M. and R. A. Firtel (2001). "Functional and regulatory analysis of the Dictyostelium G-box binding factor." Dev. Biol. 234: 521-534.
	
Briscoe, C., et al. (2001). "The phosphorylated C-terminus of cAR1 plays a role in cell-type-specific gene expression and STATa tyrosine phosphorylation." Dev. Biol. 233: 225-236.
	
Brazill, D. T., et al. (2001). "ABC transporters required for endocytosis and endosomal pH regulation in Dictyostelium." J. Cell Sci. 114: 3923-3932.
	
Bozzone, D. M. (2001). "Cells with "personality": Dictyostelium discoideum." Carolina Tips 64(2): 5-8.
	
Bonner, J. T. (2001). A note on the number of cells in a slug of Dictyostelium discoideum. http://DictyBase.org.
	
Blume, H. (2001). Of slime mold and software. The American Prospect. 12(20): 42-45.
	
Blanton, R. L. (2001). Slime moulds. Encyclopedia of Life Sciences, Wiley Interscience (John Wiley and Sons).
	Slime moulds are organisms that feed and grow like protozoa but reproduce like fungi. Their unusual name belies their importance as experimental research organisms and their potential to provide insights into the evolution of multicellularity.

Biron, D., et al. (2001). "Asexual reproduction - 'Midwives' assist dividing amoebae." Nature 410: 430.
	
Benghezal, M., et al. (2001). "Localization of the Rh50-like protein to the contractile vacuole in Dictyostelium." Immunogenetics 52: 284-288.
	
Barth, C., et al. (2001). "Transcript mapping and processing of mitochondrial RNA in Dictyostelium discoideum." Curr. Genet. 39: 355-364.
	
Azhar, M., et al. (2001). "Cell cycle phase, cellular Ca2+ and development in Dictyostelium discoideum." Int. J. Dev. Biol. 45: 405- 414.
	
Asgari, S., et al. (2001). "Expression of growth factors in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Mol. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 3: 491-497.
	
Arnoult, D., et al. (2001). "On the evolutionary conservation of the cell death pathway: mitochondrial release of an apoptosis-inducing factor during Dictyostelium discoideum cell death." Mol. Biol. Cell 12: 3016-3030.
	
Anjard, C., et al. (2001). "Requirements for the adenylyl cyclases in the development of Dictyostelium." Development 128: 3649-3654.
	
Anantharaman, V. and L. Aravind (2001). "The CHASE domain: a predicted ligand-binding module in plant cytokinin receptors and other eukaryotic and bacterial receptors." TIBS 26: 579-582.
	
Alvarez-Curto, E., et al. (2001). "Expression and role of adenylyl cyclases during late development in Dictyostelium discoideum." Int. J. Dev. Biol. 45: S147- S148.
	
Alper, J. (2001). Saving lives with sugar. Science. 291: 2339.
	
Aizawa, H., et al. (2001). "Cofilin-2, a novel type of cofilin, is expressed specifically at aggregation stage of Dictyostelium discoideum development." Genes to Cells 6: 913-921.
	
Aichem, A. and R. Mutzel (2001). "Unconventional mRNA processing in the expression of two calcineurin B isoforms in Dictyostelium." J. Mol. Biol. 308: 873-882.
	
Adelt, S., et al. (2001). "Regiospecific phosphohydrolases from Dictyostelium as tools for the chemoenzymatic synthesis of the enantiomers D-myo-inositol 1,2,4-trisphosphate and D-myo-inositol 2,3,6-trisphosphate: non-physiological, potential analogues of biologically active D-myo-inositol 1,3,4-trisphosphate." Bioorg. Med. Chem. Lett. 11: 2705-2708.
	
Adachi, H. (2001). "Identification of proteins involved in cytokinesis of Dictyostelium." Cell Struct. Funct. 26: 571-575.
	
(2001). Altruism within Dictyostelium colonies. Mycol. Res. 105: 386.
	
(2001). Dictyostelium. Mycol. Res. 105: 1280.
	
Zhu, Y. (2000). The origin of microsatellites and their application to the study of social evolution in the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum. Houston, TX, Rice University: 62.
	
Zhai, Y. and M. H. Saier Jr. (2000). "The amoebapore superfamily." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1469: 87-99.
	
Zeng, C. J., et al. (2000). "gdt1, a new signal transduction component for negative regulation of the growth-differentiation transition in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Biol. Cell 11: 1631-1643.
	
Zang, J. H. (2000). Function and localization of myosin II during cytokinesis in Dictyostelium discoideum. Stanford, CA, Stanford University: 202.
	
Yuan, A. D. and C. P. Chia (2000). "Role of esterase gp70 and its influence on growth and development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Cell Res. 261: 336-347.
	
Yoshida, M., et al. (2000). "Analysis of a mod B mutant in Dictyostelium discoideum using mRNA differential display." Plant Cell Physiol. 41: 239-243.
	
Williams, R. S. and A. J. Harwood (2000). "Lithium therapy and signal transduction." Trends. Pharmacol. Sci. 21: 61-64.
	
Williams, J. G. and R. A. Firtel (2000). "HAPPY days for the Dictyostelium genome project." Genome Res. 10: 1658-1659.
	
Williams, J. G. (2000). "STAT signalling in cell proliferation and in development." Curr. Opin. Genet. Devel. 10: 503-507.
	
Wilkins, A., et al. (2000). "Dictyostelium RasD is required for normal phototaxis, but not differentiation." Genes Devel. 14: 1407-1413.
	
Wilkins, A., et al. (2000). "A novel Dictyostelium RasGEF is required for normal endocytosis, cell motility and multicellular development." Curr. Biol. 10: 1427-1437.
	
Wetterauer, B. W. (2000). "Protein kinases from Dictyostelium discoideum with similarity to LIM kinases." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1480: 377-383.
	
Wetterauer, B., et al. (2000). "Efficient transformation of Dictyostelium discoideum with a particle inflow gun." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1499: 139-143.
	
Wessels, D. J., et al. (2000). "The internal phosphodiesterase RegA is essential for the suppression of lateral pseudopods during Dictyostelium chemotaxis." Mol. Biol. Cell 11: 2803-2820.
	
Wessels, D., et al. (2000). "Clathrin plays a novel role in the regulation of cell polarity, pseudopod formation, uropod stability and motility in Dictyostelium." J. Cell Sci. 113: 21-36.
	
Wells, W. (2000). Slimy catenins. A slime mold, like metazoans, has a beta-catenin involved both in signaling and in forming adherens junctions. The Scientist www.the-scientist.com: December 11.
	
Weidenhaupt, M., et al. (2000). "Functional and molecular identification of novel members of the ubiquitous membrane fusion proteins alpha- and gamma-SNAP (Soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive factor-attachment proteins) families in Dictyostelium discoideum." Eur. J. Biochem. 267: 2062-2070.
	
Weeks, G. (2000). "Signalling molecules involved in cellular differentiation during Dictyostelium morphogenesis." Curr. Opin. Microbiol. 3: 625-630.
	
Weber, I., et al. (2000). "Two-step positioning of a cleavage furrow by cortexillin and myosin II." Curr. Biol. 10: 501-506.
	
Warner, N. and C. L. Rutherford (2000). "Purification and cloning of TF2: A novel protein that binds a regulatory site of the gp2 promoter in Dictyostelium." Arch. Biochem. Biophys 373: 462-470.
	
Wang, J., et al. (2000). "The membrane glycoprotein gp150 is encoded by the lagC gene and mediates cell-cell adhesion by heterophilic binding during Dictyostelium development." Dev. Biol. 227: 734-745.
	
Voit, E. O. (2000). Ch. 9 - Diagnosis and refinement of a model of the tricarboxylic acid cycle in Dictyostelium discoideum. Computational analysis of biochemical systems: a practical guide for biochemists and molecular biologists. E. O. Voit. New York, Cambridge University Press.
	
Vicker, M. G. (2000). "Reaction-diffusion waves of actin filament polymerization/ depolymerization in Dictyostelium pseudopodium extension and cell locomotion." Biophys. Chem. 84: 87-98.
	
Vervoort, E. B., et al. (2000). "Optimizing heterologous expression in Dictyostelium: importance of 5' codon adaptation." Nucl. Acids Res. 28: 2069-2074.
	
van Bemmelen, M. X., et al. (2000). "Expression and one-step purification of Plasmodium proteins in Dictyostelium." Mol. Biochem. Parasitol. 111: 377-390.
	
Vadell, E. M. (2000). "Dictyostelids (Eumycetozoa) from soils of Punta Lara, province of Buenos Aires, Argentina." Rev. Argent. Microbiol. 32: 89-96.
	
Uyeda, T. Q. P. and S. Yumura (2000). "Molecular biological approaches to study myosin functions in cytokinesis of Dictyostelium." Microsc. Res. Techn. 49: 136-144.
	
Uyeda, T. Q. P., et al. (2000). "Myosin II-independent cytokinesis in Dictyostelium: its mechanism and implications." Cell Struct. Funct. 25: 1-10.
	
Traynor, D., et al. (2000). "Ca2+ signalling is not required for chemotaxis in Dictyostelium." EMBO J. 19: 4846-4854.
	
Titus, M. A. (2000). "The role of unconventional myosins in Dictyostelium endocytosis." J. Euk. Microbiol. 47: 191-196.
	
Thompson, C. R. L. and R. R. Kay (2000). "The role of DIF-1 signaling in Dictyostelium development." Mol. Cell 6: 1509-1514.
	
Thompson, C. R. L. and R. R. Kay (2000). "Cell-fate choice in Dictyostelium: intrinsic biases modulate sensitivity to DIF signaling." Dev. Biol. 227: 56-64.
	
Thomason, P. and R. Kay (2000). "Eukaryotic signal transduction via histidine-aspartate phosphorelay." J. Cell Sci. 113: 3141-3150.
	
Tessarolo, D. (2000). Cytoskeletal localization and function of calcium-binding protein 1 (CBP1) during Dictyostelium discoideum development. Toronto, ON (Canada), York University: 100.
	
Temesvari, L., et al. (2000). "Inactivation of lmpA, encoding a LIMPII-related endosomal protein, suppresses the internalization and endosomal trafficking defects in profilin-null mutants." Mol. Biol. Cell 11: 2019-2031.
	
Tekos, A., et al. (2000). "Inhibition of eukaryotic ribonuclease P activity by aminoglycosides: kinetic studies." FEBS Lett. 485: 71-75.
	
Takaya, Y., et al. (2000). "Novel acyl alpha-pyronoids, dictyopyrone A, B, and C, from Dictyostelium cellular slime molds." J. Org. Chem. 65: 985-989.
	
Swigart, P., et al. (2000). "Purification and cloning of phosphatidylinositol transfer proteins from Dictyostelium discoideum: homologues of both mammalian PITPs and Saccharomyces cerevisiae Sec14p are found in the same cell." Biochem. J. 347: 837-843.
	
Suzuki, Y. (2000). "Detection of the swings of the lever arm of a myosin motor by fluorescence resonance energy transfer of green and blue fluorescent proteins." Methods 22: 355-363.
	
Sung, S. (2000). snfA, the Dictyostelium discoideum SNF1/AMPK protein kinase. Logan, UT, Utah State University: 64.
	
Sucgang, R., et al. (2000). "Toward the functional analysis of the Dictyostelium discoideum genome." J. Euk. Microbiol. 47: 334-339.
	
Strauss, E. (2000). "Simple hosts may help reveal how bacteria infect cells." Science 290: 2245-2247.
	
Strassmann, J. E., et al. (2000). "Altruism and social cheating in the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum." Nature 408: 965-967.
	
Stewart, I. (2000). "Spiral slime (mathematical recreations)." Scientific Am. 283 (Nov.): 116-118.
	
Steinmetz, M. O., et al. (2000). "Polymerization, three-dimensional structure and mechanical properties of Dictyostelium versus rabbit muscle actin filaments." J. Mol. Biol. 303: 171-184.
	
Steiner, J. R. (2000). Scar, a WASp-like protein, is required for lateral pseudopod formation and chemotaxis in Dictyostelium discoideum. Atlanta, GA, Emory University: 226.
	
Stathopoulos, C., et al. (2000). "Effect of peptidyltransferase inhibitors on ribonuclease P activity from Dictyostelium discoideum - Effect of antibiotics on RNase P." Mol. Biol. Reports 27: 107-111.
	
Srinivasan, S., et al. (2000). "The cellulose-binding activity of the PsB multiprotein complex is required for proper assembly of the spore coat and spore viability in Dictyostelium discoideum." Microbiology 146: 1829-1839.
	
Srinivasan, S., et al. (2000). The Dictyostelium fruiting body - A structure of cells and cellulose. Trends Cell Biol. 10: 315.
	
Srinivasan, S., et al. (2000). "Crossing the finish line of development: regulated secretion of Dictyostelium proteins." Trends Cell Biol. 10: 215-219.
	
Srinivasan, S. (2000). Developmentally regulated secretion in Dictyostelium discoideum. Columbia, MO, University of Missouri: 200.
	
Solomon, J. M., et al. (2000). "Intracellular growth of Legionella pneumophila in Dictyostelium discoideum, a system for genetic analysis of host-pathogen interactions." Inf. Immun. 68: 2939-2947.
	
Solomon, J. M. and R. R. Isberg (2000). "Growth of Legionella pneumophila in Dictyostelium discoideum: a novel system for genetic analysis of host-pathogen interactions." Trends Microbiol. 8: 478-480.
	
Soll, D. R., et al. (2000). "Three-dimensional reconstruction and motion analysis of living, crawling cells." Scanning 22: 249-257.
	
Sims, M. D. (2000). Molecular analysis of pimaricin resistance in Dictyostelium discoideum. Stony Brook, NY, State University of New York (SUNY) at Stonybrook: 262.
	
Shih, W. M. W. (2000). Probing conformational changes in Dictyostelium myosin II via cysteine engineering. Stanford, CA, Stanford University: 150.
	
Shih, W. M., et al. (2000). "A FRET-based sensor reveals large ATP hydrolysis-induced conformational changes and three distinct states of the molecular motor myosin." Cell 102: 683-694.
	
Senda, S. and M. A. Titus (2000). "A potential mechanism for regulating myosin I binding to membranes in vivo." FEBS Lett. 484: 125-128.
	
Sellers, J. R. (2000). "Myosins: a diverse superfamily." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1496: 3-22.
	
Schwarz, E. C., et al. (2000). "Dictyostelium myosin IK is involved in the maintenance of cortical tension and affects motility and phagocytosis." J. Cell Sci. 113: 621-633.
	
Schneider, N., et al. (2000). "Golvesin-GFP fusions as distinct markers for Golgi and post-Golgi vesicles in Dictyostelium cells." Biol. Cell 92: 495-511.
	
Schaloske, R., et al. (2000). "A xestospongin C-sensitive Ca2+ store is required for cAMP-induced Ca2+ influx and cAMP oscillations in Dictyostelium." J. Biol. Chem. 275: 8404-8408.
	
Sawai, S., et al. (2000). "Spontaneous symmetry breaking Turing-type pattern formation in a confined Dictyostelium cell mass." Phys. Rev. Lett. 85: 2212-2215.
	
Sawada, T., et al. (2000). "Structure determination and total synthesis of a novel antibacterial substance, AB0022A, produced by a cellular slime mold." J. Antibiotics 53: 959-966.
	
Sasaki, N., et al. (2000). "Insertion or deletion of a single residue in the strut sequence of Dictyostelium myosin II abolishes strong binding to actin." J. Biol. Chem. 275: 38705-38709.
	
Samuilov, V. D., et al. (2000). "Programmed cell death." Biochem. (Moscow) 65: 873-887.
	
Sameshima, M., et al. (2000). "Novel actin cytoskeleton: actin tubules." Cell Struct. Funct. 25: 291-295.
	
Salger, K. and B. W. Wetterauer (2000). "Aberrant folate response and premature development in a mutant of Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 66: 197-207.
	
Saito, T., et al. (2000). "A second functional delta5 fatty acid desaturase in the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Eur. J. Biochem. 267: 1813-1818.
	
Saeki, K., et al. (2000). "Role of residues 230 and 236 of actin in myosin-ATPase activation by actin-tropomyosin." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 275: 428-433.
	
Saeki, K. and T. Wakabayashi (2000). "A230Y mutation of actin on subdomain 4 is sufficient for higher calcium activation of actin-activated myosin adenosinetriphosphatase in the presence of tropomyosin-troponin." Biochemistry 39: 1324-1329.
	
Rosenfeld, S. S., et al. (2000). "Kinetic and spectroscopic evidence for three actomyosin:ADP states in smooth muscle." J. Biol. Chem. 275: 25418-25426.
	
Rosel, D., et al. (2000). "Molecular characterization of a calmodulin-like Dictyostelium protein CalB." FEBS Lett. 473: 323-327.
	
Roisin-Bouffay, C., et al. (2000). "A precise group size in Dictyostelium is generated by a cell-counting factor modulating cell-cell adhesion." Mol. Cell 6: 953-959.
	
Robinson, D. N. and J. A. Spudich (2000). "Towards a molecular understanding of cytokinesis." Trends Cell Biol. 10: 228-237.
	
Robinson, D. N. and J. A. Spudich (2000). "Dynacortin, a genetic link between equatorial contractility and global shape control discovered by library complementation of a Dictyostelium discoideum cytokinesis mutant." J. Cell Biol. 150: 823-838.
	
Regan, A. C., et al. (2000). "Synthesis of a phosphinic acid analogue of cyclic AMP." Tetrahedron Lett. 41(43): 8211-8215.
	Synthesis of a cyclic phosphinate ester analogue of cyclic AMP was achieved by using a double Arbuzov-type cyclisation of bis-trimethylsilyl phosphonite onto a sugar dihalide derivative as the key step.

Reeves, W. K., et al. (2000). "New faunal and fungal records from caves in Georgia, USA." J. Cave Karst Studies 62: 169-179.
	
Ratner, D. I. and R. H. Kessin (2000). "Meeting report: Dictyostelium 2000: a conference on the cell and developmental biology of a social amoeba, Dundee, Scotland, July 30 - August 4, 2000." Protist 151: 291-297.
	
Pukatzki, S., et al. (2000). "A genetic interaction between a ubiquitin-like protein and ubiquitin-mediated proteolysis in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1499: 154-163.
	
Puius, Y. A., et al. (2000). "Mapping the functional surface of domain 2 in the gelsolin superfamily." Biochemistry 39: 5322-5331.
	
Primpke, G., et al. (2000). "Role of cAMP-dependent protein kinase during growth and early development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 221: 101-111.
	
Ponte, E., et al. (2000). "Severe developmental defects in Dictyostelium null mutants for actin-binding proteins." Mech. Devel. 91: 153-161.
	
Ponomarev, M. A., et al. (2000). "Charge changes in loop 2 affect the thermal unfolding of the myosin motor domain bound to F-actin." Biochemistry 39: 4527-4532.
	
Pfeiffer, T., et al. (2000). "Effects of phosphorothioate modifications on precursor tRNA processing by eukaryotic RNase P enzymes." J. Mol. Biol. 298: 559-565.
	
Pavur, K. S., et al. (2000). "Mapping the functional domains of elongation factor-2 kinase." Biochemistry 39: 12216-12224.
	
Patterson, B. (2000). "Genetic techniques for enhancing biochemical and structural characterization of Dictyostelium myosin II." Methods 22: 299- 306.
	
Patel, H., et al. (2000). "A temperature-sensitive adenylyl cyclase mutant of Dictyostelium." EMBO J. 19: 2247-2256.
	
Papadimou, E., et al. (2000). "Additive inhibitory effect of calcipotriol and anthralin on ribonuclease P activity." Biochem. Pharmacol. 60: 91-94.
	
Panetti, T. S. and D. F. Mosher (2000). "Lysophospholipd-induced cell migration." Annals NYAS 905: 326-329.
	
Palsson, E. and H. G. Othmer (2000). "A model for individual and collective cell movement in Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 97: 10448-10453.
	
Palmieri, S. J., et al. (2000). "Mutant Rac1B expression in Dictyostelium: effects on morphology, growth, endocytosis, development, and the actin cytoskeleton." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 46: 285-304.
	
Pal, C. and B. Papp (2000). Selfish cells threaten multicellular life. Trends Ecol. Evol. 15: 351-352.
	
Ott, A., et al. (2000). "Osmotic stress response in Dictyostelium is mediated by cAMP." EMBO J. 19: 5782-5792.
	
Ott, A. (2000). cAMP als zentraler Botenstoff der hyperosmotischen Stressantowrt in Dictyostelium discoideum. Munich, Germany, LMU (Ludwig-Maximilians-Universitat Munchen: 143.
	
Othmer, H. G., et al. (2000). Pattern formation in a cellular slime mold. The IMA Volumes in Mathematics and its Applications. W. Miller Jr. New York, Springer. 119: 359-383.
	
Oishi, N., et al. (2000). "Novel Dictyostelium unconventional myosin, MyoM, has a putative RhoGEF domain." FEBS Lett. 474: 16-22.
	
Ogawa, S., et al. (2000). "The mitochondrial DNA of Dictyostelium discoideum: complete sequence, gene content and genome organization." Mol. Gen. Genet. 263: 514-519.
	
O'Halloran, T. J. (2000). "Membrane traffic and cytokinesis." Traffic 1: 921-926.
	
Noegel, A. A. and M. Schleicher (2000). "The actin cytoskleleton of Dictyostelium: a story told by mutants." J. Cell Sci. 113: 759-766.
	
Nock, S., et al. (2000). "Mutational analysis of phosphorylation sites in the Dictyostelium myosin II tail: disruption of myosin function by a single charge change." FEBS Lett. 466: 267-272.
	
Neuhaus, E. M. and T. Soldati (2000). "A myosin I is involved in membrane recycling from early endosomes." J. Cell Biol. 150: 1013-1026.
	
Nelson, M. K., et al. (2000). "An F-Box/WD40 repeat-containing protein important for Dictyostelium cell-type proportioning, slug behaviour, and culmination." Dev. Biol. 224: 42-59.
	
Natarajan, K., et al. (2000). "Related Galpha subunits play opposing roles during Dictyostelium development." Differentiation 66: 136-146.
	
Nagano, S. (2000). "Modeling the model organism Dictyostelium discoideum." Devel. Growth Differ. 42: 541-550.
	
Nadin, B. M., et al. (2000). "The regulative capacity of prespore amoebae as demonstrated by fluorescence-activated cell sorting and green fluorescent protein." Dev. Biol. 217: 173-178.
	
Murphy, M. B. (2000). Characterization of protein phosphatase 2A in Dictyostelium. Cleveland, OH, Case Western Reserve University: 144.
	
Mreyen, M., et al. (2000). "Multiple O-glycoforms on the spore coat protein SP96 in Dictyostelium discoideum - Fuc(alpha1-3)GlcNAc-alpha-1-P-Ser is the major modification." J. Biol. Chem. 275: 12164-12174.
	
Morita, T., et al. (2000). "Involvement of the glucose-regulated protein 94 (Dd-GRP94) in starvation response of Dictyostelium discoideum cells." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 274: 323-331.
	
Moreno-Bueno, G., et al. (2000). "Isolation and characterization of casein kinase I from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. J. 349: 527-537.
	
Monnat, J., et al. (2000). "Identification of a novel saturable endoplasmic reticulum localization mechanism mediated by the C-terminus of a Dictyostelium protein disulfide isomerase." Mol. Biol. Cell 11: 3469-3484.
	
Mohrs, M. R., et al. (2000). "Cloning and characterization of beta-COP from Dictyostelium discoideum." Eur. J. Cell Biol. 79: 350-357.
	
Miwa, Y., et al. (2000). "Differentiation-inducing factor-1, a morphogen of Dictyostelium, induces G1 arrest and differentiation of vascular smooth muscle cells." Circul. Res. 86: 68-75.
	
Miura, K. and F. Siegert (2000). "Light affects cAMP signaling and cell movement activity in Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 97: 2111-2116.
	
Mitra, B. N., et al. (2000). "Loss of a member of the aquaporin gene family, aqpA affects spore dormancy in Dictyostelium." Gene 251: 131-139.
	
Mimura, M. (2000). Reaction-diffusion systems arising in biological and chemical systems: application of singular limit procedures. Mathematical aspects of evolving interfaces. L. Ambrosio, K. Deckelnick, G. Dziuk et al. New York, Springer-Verlag. 1812: 89-121.
	
Merkel, R., et al. (2000). "A micromechanic study of cell polarity and plasma membrane cell body coupling in Dictyostelium." Biophys. J. 79: 707-719.
	
Meili, R., et al. (2000). "A novel Akt/PKB-related kinase is essential for morphogenesis in Dictyostelium." Curr. Biol. 10: 708-717.
	
Medvinskii, A. B., et al. (2000). "The mechanism of formation of Liesegang structures around Dictyostelium discoideum population." Biofizika 45: 525-531.
	
Matsuura, Y., et al. (2000). "Structural basis for the higher Ca2+-activation of the regulated actin-activated myosin ATPase observed with Dictyostelium/Tetrahymena actin chimeras." J. Mol. Biol. 296: 579-595.
	
Marron-Terada, P. G., et al. (2000). "Recognition of Dictyostelium discoideum lysosomal enzymes is conferred by the amino-terminal carbohydrate binding site of the insulin-like growth factor II/mannose 6-phosphate receptor." Biochemistry 39: 2243-2253.
	
Maree, A. F. M. (2000). From pattern formation to morphogenesis: multicellular coordination in Dictyostelium discoideum. Utrecht, the Netherlands, Utrecht University: 152.
	
Mangiarotti, G. and R. Giorda (2000). "Cell type specificity and mechanism of control of a gene may be reverted in different strains of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1492: 23-30.
	
Mangiarotti, G. (2000). "Induction of ribosomal subunits misassembly by antisense RNAs to control cell growth." Exp. Cell Res. 259: 266-273.
	
Malnasi-Csizmadia, A., et al. (2000). "Resolution of conformational states of Dictyostelium myosin II motor domain using tryptophan (W501) mutants: implications for the open-closed transition identified by crystallography." Biochemistry 39: 16135-16146.
	
Maeda, Y. (2000). Model Organism: the Cellular Slime Mold. Tokyo, IPC.
	
Maeda, M., et al. (2000). "Developmental changes in the spatial expression of genes involved in myosin function in Dictyostelium." Dev. Biol. 223: 114-119.
	
Maeda, M. and H. Kuwayama (2000). "A diffusible factor involved in MAP-kinase ERK2-regulated development of Dictyostelium." Devel. Growth Differ. 42: 275-284.
	
Ma, S. (2000). Function and regulation of cytoplasmic dynein. Evanston, IL, Northwestern University: 162.
	
Loughran, G., et al. (2000). "Identification of STKA-dependent genes in Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 66: 71-80.
	
Liu, X., et al. (2000). "Chimeras of Dictyostelium myosin II head and neck domains with Acanthamoeba or chicken smooth muscle myosin II tail domain have greatly increased and unregulated actin-dependent MgATPase activity." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 97: 12553-12558.
	
Liu, X., et al. (2000). "Involvement of tail domains in regulation of Dictyostelium myosin II." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 271: 75-81.
	
Li, G., et al. (2000). "Molecular basis for resistance to the anticancer drug cisplatin in Dictyostelium." Microbiology 146: 2219-2227.
	
Li, G. (2000). Genes and pathways mediating the cytotoxicity of the anticancer drug cisplatin in Dictyostelium discoideum. Columbia, MO, University of Missouri: 227.
	
Levi, S., et al. (2000). "Green fluorescent protein and epitope tag fusion vectors for Dictyostelium discoideum." Plasmid 44: 231-238.
	
Lee, S. S., et al. (2000). "Dissection of functional domains by expression of point-mutated profilins in Dictyostelium mutants." Eur. J. Cell Biol. 79: 92-103.
	
Laussmann, T., et al. (2000). "Diphospho-myo-inositol phosphates during the life cycle of Dictyostelium and Polysphondylium." Eur. J. Biochem. 267: 2447-2451.
	
Lascu, I., et al. (2000). "Quaternary structure of nucleoside diphosphate kinases." J. Bioenerg. Biomembranes 32: 227-236.
	
Larochelle, D. A., et al. (2000). "Molecular analysis of racE function in Dictyostelium." Microsc. Res. Techn. 49: 145-151.
	
Kuwayama, H., et al. (2000). "A novel role of differentiation-inducing factor-1 in Dictyostelium development, assessed by the restoration of a developmental defect in a mutant lacking mitogen-activated protein kinase ERK2." Devel. Growth Differ. 42: 531-538.
	
Kravchenko, V. V., et al. (2000). "The structural modification of environment by microorganisms: the formation of Liesegang rings around Dictyostelium discoideum population." Biofizika 45: 93-102.
	
Kravchenko, V. V., et al. (2000). "How the spatial structure of Dictyostelium discoideum population is influenced by its environment." Biofizika 45: 103-111.
	
Korn, E. D. (2000). "Coevolution of head, neck, and tail domains of myosin heavy chains." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 97: 12559-12564.
	
Koonce, M. P. and I. Tikhonenko (2000). "Functional elements within the dynein microtubule-binding domain." Mol. Biol. Cell 11: 523-529.
	
Koonce, M. P. (2000). "Dictyostelium, a model organism for microtubule-based transport." Protist 151: 17-25.
	
Konfortov, B. A., et al. (2000). "A high-resolution HAPPY map of Dictyostelium discoideum chromosome 6." Genome Res. 10: 1737-1742.
	
Kon, T., et al. (2000). "amiB, a novel gene required for the growth/differentiation transition in Dictyostelium." Genes to Cells 5: 43-55.
	
Kobayashi, M. and H. Inaba (2000). "Photon statistics and correlation analysis of ultraweak light originating from living organisms for extraction of biological information." Appl Opt 39(1): 183-192.
	Ultraweak photon emission phenomena in the visible to near-IR region, originating from biological organisms, are known. This biophoton emission is generated during metabolic processes and constitutes physiological information. We investigated a technique for characterizing the optical radiation field based on photon statistics and correlation analysis to extract information on regulation processes in biochemical reactions and their interactions. We developed the system based on the time-interval measurement of photoelectrons in a photon-counting region and employed data processing with a nonstationary optical field with correction for the correlative properties of the photomultiplier dark current. We analyzed biophoton emission from cellular slime mold (Dictyosterium discoideum) and observed the characteristic variation of this organism's super-Poisson statistics during the developmental process.

Kishi, Y., et al. (2000). "Glucose-induced pathways for actin tyrosine dephosphorylation during Dictyostelium spore germination." Exp. Cell Res. 261: 187-198.
	
Kimble, M., et al. (2000). "Microtubule organization and the effects of GFP-tubulin expression in Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 47: 48-62.
	
Kim, Y. A., et al. (2000). "Characterization of recombinant Dictyostelium discoideum sepiapterin reductase expressed in E. coli." Mol Cells 10: 405-410.
	
Kim, L. and A. R. Kimmel (2000). "GSK3, a master switch regulating cell-fate specification and tumorigenesis." Curr. Opin. Genet. Devel. 10: 508-514.
	
Khosla, M., et al. (2000). "Functional overlap of the Dictyostelium RasG, RasD and RasB proteins." J. Cell Sci. 113: 1427-1434.
	
Khaire, N. K. (2000). Functional studies of phototaxis in Dictyostelium discoideum mutants. Koln, Germany, Universitat zu Koln: 117.
	
Kessin, R. H. (2000). Evolutionary biology - Cooperation can be dangerous. Nature. 408: 917-919.
	
Kay, R. R. (2000). "Development at the edge of multi-cellularity: Dictyostelium discoideum." Int. J. Dev. Biol. 44: 35- 38.
	
Jones, M. (2000). Resistance to anti-cancer drug cisplatin. Microbiol. Today. 27: 203.
	
Jones, M. (2000). Developmental cheating. Microbiol. Today. 27: 148-149.
	
Jin, T., et al. (2000). "Localization of the G protein betagamma complex in living cells during chemotaxis." Science 287: 1034-1036.
	
Janin, J., et al. (2000). "Three-dimensional structure of nucleoside diphosphate kinase." J. Bioenerg. Biomembranes 32: 215-225.
	
Jaffer, Z. M. (2000). Overexpression of activated Ras alters cell fate determination during the development of Dictyostelium discoideum. Vancouver, BC (Canada), The University of British Columbia: 170.
	
Iwai, S., et al. (2000). "Characterization of a C-terminal-type kinesin-related protein from Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 475: 47-51.
	
Iijima, M., et al. (2000). "Identification and characterization of two flavohemoglobin genes in Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Struct. Funct. 25: 47-55.
	
Ichetovkin, I., et al. (2000). "Actin filaments are severed by both native and recombinant Dictyostelium cofilin but to different extents." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 45: 293-306.
	
Hwang, J. Y., et al. (2000). "The occurrence and morphological comparison of dictyostelid cellular slime molds in Mt. Muhak soils." Korean J. Ecol. 23: 315-321.
	
Hutter, M. C. and V. Helms (2000). "Phosphoryl transfer by a concerted reaction mechanism in UMP/ CMP-kinase." Prot. Sci. 9: 2225-2231.
	
Horn, M., et al. (2000). "Neochlamydia hartmannella gen. nov., sp. nov. (Parachlamydiaceae), an endoparasite of the amoeba Hartmannella vermiformis." Microbiology 146: 1231-1239.
	
Holmes, K. C. and M. A. Geeves (2000). "The structural basis of muscle contraction." Phil. Trans. R. Soc. Lond. B 355: 419-431.
	
Hirose, S., et al. (2000). "Suppression of the growth/differentiation transition in Dictyostelium development by transient expression of a novel gene, dia1." Development 127: 3263-3270.
	
Hirayama, Y., et al. (2000). "Structure-function relationships of the two surface loops of myosin heavy chain isoforms from thermally acclimated carp." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 269: 237-241.
	
Hirano, T., et al. (2000). "Rapid patterning in 2-D cultures of Dictyostelium cells and its relationship to zonal differentiation." Devel. Growth Differ. 42: 551-560.
	
Hess, B. (2000). "Periodic patterns in biology." Naturwissenschaften 87: 199-211.
	
Harwood, A. J. (2000). "Signal transduction: life, the universe and. development." Curr. Biol. 10: R116-R119.
	
Hagiwara, H. and S. Kawakami (2000). "Dictyostelids from the Fukiage Gardens of the imperial palace, Tokyo." Mem. Natl. Sci. Mus. Tokyo 34: 389-393.
	
Hagiwara, H. (2000). "Collection, detection, and isolation of fungi: cellular slime molds." Trans. Mycol. Soc. Japan 41: 41-45.
	
Hagiwara, H. (2000). "Dictyostelids in the region around the Seto Inland Sea, Japan." Mem. Natl. Sci. Mus. Tokyo 32: 77-81.
	
Hagele, S., et al. (2000). "Dictyostelium discoideum: a new host model system for intracellular pathogens of the genus Legionella." Cell. Microbiol. 2: 165-171.
	
Guo, K. D. and P. C. Newell (2000). "Pyridoxal kinase knockout of Dictyostelium complemented by the human homologue." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 189: 195-200.
	
Gulick, A. M., et al. (2000). "X-ray structures of the Dictyostelium discoideum myosin motor domain with six non-nucleotide analogs." J. Biol. Chem. 275: 398-408.
	
Grove, J. E., et al. (2000). "The intracellular target for the antiresorptive aminobisphosphonate drugs in Dictyostelium discoideum is the enzyme farnesyl diphosphate synthase." J. Bone Miner. Res. 15: 971-981.
	
Grimson, M. J., et al. (2000). "Adherens junctions and beta-catenin-mediated cell signalling in a non-metazoan organism." Nature 408: 727-731.
	
Grimson, M. J. (2000). A new view of culmination in Dictyostelium: morphogenetic roles of cell shapes, intercellular junctions, and extracellular matrices. Lubbock, TX, Texas Tech University: 218.
	
Gregg, K. Y. and E. C. Cox (2000). "Spatial and temporal expression of a Polysphondylium spore-specific gene." Dev. Biol. 224: 81-95.
	
Graf, R., et al. (2000). "Dictyostelium DdCP224 is a microtubule-associated protein and a permanent centrosomal resident involved in centrosome duplication." J. Cell Sci. 113: 1747-1758.
	
Graf, R., et al. (2000). "Comparative structural, molecular, and functional aspects of the Dictyostelium discoideum centrosome." Curr. Topics Dev. Biol. 49: 161-185.
	
Good, J. R. and A. Kuspa (2000). "Evidence that a cell-type-specific efflux pump regulates cell differentiation in Dictyostelium." Dev. Biol. 220: 53-61.
	
Goldbeter, A., et al. (2000). The frequency encoding of pulsatility. Mechanisms and biological significance of pulsatile hormone secretion. D. J. Chadwick and J. A. Goode. New York, John Wiley & Sons: 19-45.
	
Godzina, S. M., et al. (2000). "Cloning and characterization of the Dictyostelium discoideum cycloartenol synthase cDNA." Lipids 35: 249-255.
	
Glockner, G. (2000). "Large scale sequencing and analysis of AT rich eukaryotic genomes." Curr. Genomics 1: 289-299.
	
Ginger, R. S., et al. (2000). "Glycogen synthase kinase-3 enhances nuclear export of a Dictyostelium STAT protein." EMBO J. 19: 5483-5491.
	
Gilbert, S. F. (2000). Ch. 2: Life cycles and the evolution of developmental patterns. Developmental Biology, 6th edition. S. F. Gilbert. Sunderland, MA, Sinauer Assoc.: 25-48.
	
Gerisch, G. and I. Weber (2000). "Cytokinesis without myosin II." Curr. Opin. Cell Biol. 12: 126-132.
	
Gerald, N. J. (2000). Cytokinesis failure in Dictyostelium discoideum: the impacts of cortical integrity and furrow constriction. Durham, NC, Duke University: 167.
	
Geissler, H., et al. (2000). "The tail domain of myosin M catalyses nucleotide exchange on Rac1 GTPases and can induce actin-driven surface protrusions." Traffic 1: 399-410.
	
Garcia, M. X. U., et al. (2000). "Differential developmental expression and cell type specificity of Dictyostelium catalases and their response to oxidative stress and UV-light." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1492: 295-310.
	
Garcia, M. X. U. (2000). Regulation and role of catalases during development and oxidative stress in Dictyostelium discoideum. Columbia, MO, University of Missouri: 226.
	
Furch, M., et al. (2000). "Stabilization of the actomyosin complex by negative charges on myosin." Biochemistry 39: 11602-11608.
	
Fukuzawa, M. and J. G. Williams (2000). "Analysis of the promoter of the cudA gene reveals novel mechanisms of Dictyostelium cell type differentiation." Development 127: 2705-2713.
	
Fukui, Y., et al. (2000). "How well can an amoeba climb?" Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 97: 10020-10025.
	
Fukui, Y. (2000). "Real-time high-resolution optical sectioning suggests biphasic cytokinetic mechanism in Dictyostelium discoideum." Microsc. Res. Techn. 49: 183-189.
	
Flaadt, H., et al. (2000). "Mechanism of cAMP-induced H+-efflux of Dictyostelium cells: a role for fatty acids." J. Biosci. 25: 243-252.
	
Firtel, R. A. and R. Meili (2000). "Dictyostelium: a model for regulated cell movement during morphogenesis." Curr. Opin. Genet. Devel. 10: 421-427.
	
Firtel, R. A. and C. Y. Chung (2000). "The molecular genetics of chemotaxis: sensing and responding to chemoattractant gradients." Bioessays 22: 603-615.
	
Ferkey, D. M. and D. Kimelman (2000). "GSK-3: new thoughts on an old enzyme." Dev. Biol. 225: 471-479.
	
Fasel, N. J. and C. D. Reymond (2000). Modified polypeptides for enhanced immunogenicity. USA, RMF Dictagene S.A. (CH). 08/428616: 11.
	
Escalante, R. and J. J. Vicente (2000). "Dictyostelium discoideum: a model system for differentiation and patterning." Int. J. Dev. Biol. 44: 819- 835.
	
Ennis, H. L., et al. (2000). "Dictyostelium amoebae lacking an F-box protein form spores rather than stalk in chimeras with wild type." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 97: 3292-3297.
	
Endow, S. A. (2000). "Molecular motors - A paradigm for mutant analysis." J. Cell Sci. 113: 1311-1318.
	
Dumontier, M., et al. (2000). "Rac1 GTPases control filopodia formation, cell motility, endocytosis, cytokinesis and development in Dictyostelium." J. Cell Sci. 113: 2253-2265.
	
Dorywalska, M., et al. (2000). "Characterization and hetereologous expression of cDNAs encoding two novel closely related Ca2+-binding proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1496: 356-361.
	
Dormann, D., et al. (2000). "The control of chemotactic cell movement during Dictyostelium morphogenesis." Phil. Trans. R. Soc. Lond. B 355: 983-991.
	
Dharamsi, A., et al. (2000). "CBP1 associates with the Dictyostelium cytoskeleton and is important for normal cell aggregation under certain developmental conditions." Exp. Cell Res. 258: 298-309.
	
Dealy, M. J. (2000). The role of Cul1 in murine development and cyclin E regulation. La Jolla, CA, University of California, San Diego (UCSD): 123.
	
Davies, E., et al. (2000). "The use of nonlinear dielectric spectroscopy to monitor the bioelectromagnetic effects of a weak pulsed magnetic field in real time." Bioelectromagnetics 21: 25-33.
	
Dao, D. N., et al. (2000). "Developmental cheating and the evolutionary biology of Dictyostelium and Myxococcus." Microbiology 146: 1505-1512.
	
Damer, C. K. and T. J. O'Halloran (2000). "Spatially regulated recruitment of clathrin to the plasma membrane during capping and cell translocation." Mol. Biol. Cell 11: 2151-2159.
	
Dallon, J. C. (2000). "Numerical aspects of discrete and continuum hybrid models in cell biology." Appl. Num. Mathem. 32: 137-159.
	
Cubeddu, L., et al. (2000). "Dictyostelium discoideum as expression host: isotopic labeling of a recombinant glycoprotein for NMR studies." Prot. Expr. Purif. 19: 335-342.
	
Cotter, D. A., et al. (2000). "Environmental regulation of pathways controlling sporulation, dormancy and germination utilizes bacterial-like signaling complexes in Dictyostelium discoideum." Protist 151: 111-126.
	
Cornillon, S., et al. (2000). "Phg1p is a nine-transmembrane protein superfamily member involved in Dictyostelium adhesion and phagocytosis." J. Biol. Chem. 275: 34287-34292.
	
Clow, P. A., et al. (2000). "Three-dimensional in vivo analysis of Dictyostelium mounds reveals directional sorting of prestalk cells and defines a role for the myosin II regulatory light chain in prestalk cell sorting and tip protrusion." Development 127: 2715-2728.
	
Chung, C. Y., et al. (2000). "Role of Rac in controlling the actin cytoskeleton and chemotaxis in motile cells." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 97: 5225-5230.
	
Chung, C. Y. and R. A. Firtel (2000). Dictyostelium - A model experimental system for elucidating the pathways and mechanisms controlling chemotaxis. Principles of Molecular Regulation. P. M. Conn and A. R. Means. Totowa, NJ, Humana Press: 99-114.
	
Chubb, J. R., et al. (2000). "The Dictyostelium RasS protein is required for macropinocytosis, phagocytosis and the control of cell movement." J. Cell Sci. 113: 709-719.
	
Chien, S., et al. (2000). "The Dictyostelium LIM domain-containing protein LIM2 is essential for proper chemotaxis and morphogenesis." Mol. Biol. Cell 11: 1275-1291.
	
Chiang, M. S. M. (2000). The contractile vacuole secretory pathway in Dictyostelium discoideum. Toronto, ON (Canada), University of Toronto: 109.
	
Chen, Y. (2000). Prenylcysteine carboxyl methyltransferase in Dictyostelium. Princeton, NJ, Princeton University: 106.
	
Chen, C. F. and E. R. Katz (2000). "Mediation of cell-substratum adhesion by RasG in Dictyostelium." J. Cell. Biochem. 79: 139-149.
	
Cervi, D. N. (2000). The molecular chaperone (hsp70) and its potential roles during dormancy and germination of Dictyostelium discoideum spores; correlation with actin tyrosine phosphorylation. Windsor, ON (Canada), University of Windsor: 105.
	
Ceccarelli, A., et al. (2000). "Characterisation of a DNA sequence element that directs Dictyostelium stalk cell-specific gene expression." Differentiation 66: 189-196.
	
Cavender, J. C. and E. M. Vadell (2000). "The genus Acytostelium." Mycologia 92: 992-1008.
	
Burkhard, P., et al. (2000). "The coiled-coil trigger site of the rod domain of cortexillin I unveils a distinct network of interhelical and intrahelical salt bridges." Structure 8: 223-230.
	
Bruckert, F., et al. (2000). "Rab7, a multifaceted GTP-binding protein regulating access to degradative compartments in eukaryotic cells." Protoplasma 210: 108-116.
	
Brown, J. M. and R. A. Firtel (2000). "Just the right size - Cell counting in Dictyostelium." Trends Genet. 16: 191-193.
	
Brown, J. M. (2000). Functional and regulatory analyses of the Dictyostelium discoideum G-box binding factor. La Jolla, CA, University of California, San Diego (UCSD): 131.
	
Brazill, D. T., et al. (2000). "A protein containing a serine-rich domain with vesicle fusing properties mediates cell cycle-dependent cytosolic pH regulation." J. Biol. Chem. 275: 19231-19240.
	
Bracco, E., et al. (2000). "Cell-cell signaling and adhesion in phagocytosis and early development of Dictyostelium." Int. J. Dev. Biol. 44: 733-742.
	
Bonner, J. T. (2000). First signals - The evolution of multicellular development. Princeton, NJ, Princeton Univ. Press.
	
Bogdanovic, A., et al. (2000). "A syntaxin 7 homologue is present in Dictyostelium discoideum endosomes and controls their homotypic fusion." J. Biol. Chem. 275: 36691-36697.
	
Blumer, J. B. (2000). Functional redundancy among cAMP receptor subtypes in Dictyostelium discoideum. Atlanta, GA, Emory University: 156.
	
Blanton, R. L., et al. (2000). "The cellulose synthase gene of Dictyostelium." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 97: 2391-2396.
	
Blaauw, M., et al. (2000). "Efficient control of gene expression by a tetracycline-dependent transactivator in single Dictyostelium discoideum cells." Gene 252: 71-82.
	
Bishop, J. D. (2000). Developmental mechanisms of the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum. Houston, TX, Rice University: 154.
	
Benoit, M., et al. (2000). "Discrete interactions in cell adhesion measured by single-molecule force spectroscopy." Nature Cell Biol. 2: 313-317.
	
Bauer, C. B., et al. (2000). "X-ray structures of the apo and MgATP-bound states of Dictyostelium discoideum myosin motor domain." J. Biol. Chem. 275: 38494-38499.
	
Baskar, R., et al. (2000). "A cell type-specific effect of calcium on pattern formation and differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Int. J. Dev. Biol. 44: 491- 498.
	
Abe, A., et al. (2000). "Acetylation at the N-terminus of actin strengthens weak interaction between actin and myosin." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 268: 14-19.
	
Zischka, H., et al. (1999). "Rearrangement of cortex proteins constitutes an osmoprotective mechanism in Dictyostelium." EMBO J. 18: 4241-4249.
	
Zhou, X. and D. M. Fambrough (1999). "Expression of the avian Na,K-ATPase subunits in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Membrane Biol. 167: 19-24.
	
Zhang, Y. Y., et al. (1999). "A linking function for the cellulose-binding protein SP85 in the spore coat of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 112: 4367-4377.
	
Zhang, T., et al. (1999). "A mutation that separates the RasG signals that regulate development and cytoskeletal function in Dictyostelium." Exp. Cell Res. 247: 356-366.
	
Yuan, A. D., et al. (1999). "Nonspecific interactions alter lipopolysaccharide patterns and protein mobility on sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gels." Electrophoresis 20: 1946-1949.
	
Yuan, A. D. and C. P. Chia (1999). "Co-loss of profilin I, II and cofilin with actin from maturing phagosomes in Dictyostelium discoideum." Protoplasma 209: 214-225.
	
Yokoi, H., et al. (1999). "Morpho-functional machine: design of an amoebae model based on the vibrating potential method." Robotics and Autonomous Systems 28: 217-236.
	
Yazu, M., et al. (1999). "Novel Dictyostelium unconventional myosin MyoK is a class I myosin with the longest loop-1 insert and the shortest tail." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 255: 711-716.
	
Yang, C. (1999). Cloning, regulation, and promoter analysis of the cadA gene in Dictyostelium discoideum. Toronto, ON (Canada), University of Toronto: 149.
	
Xiao, Z., et al. (1999). "Desensitization of G-protein-coupled receptors - Agonist-induced phosphorylation of the chemoattractant receptor cAR1 lowers its intrinsic affinity for cAMP." J. Biol. Chem. 274: 1440-1448.
	
Wu, Y., et al. (1999). "Dictyostelium myosin II G680V suppressors exhibit overlapping spectra of biochemical phenotypes including facilitated phosphate release." Genetics 153: 107-116.
	
Wolf, W. A., et al. (1999). "Regulation of cytokinesis." Cell. Mol. Life Sci. 55: 108-120.
	
Wolak, T. P. (1999). Differential expressions and activities of the cysteine proteinases of cellular slime molds (Dictyostelium discoideum, Polysphondylium pallidum). Windsor, ON (Canada), University of Windsor: 121.
	
Williams, R. S. B., et al. (1999). "Loss of a prolyl oligopeptidase confers resistance to lithium by elevation of inositol (1,4,5) trisphosphate." EMBO J. 18: 2734-2745.
	
Williams, J. G. (1999). Introduction. Semin. Cell Dev. Biol. 10: 565-566.
	
Williams, J. G. (1999). "Serpentine receptors and STAT activation: more than one way to twin a STAT." TIBS 24: 333-334.
	
Wienke, D. C., et al. (1999). "Disruption of a dynamin homologue affects endocytosis, organelle morphology, and cytokinesis in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Biol. Cell 10: 225-243.
	
Wells, D. J. (1999). "Tdd-4, a DNA transposon of Dictyostelium that encodes proteins similar to LTR retroelement integrases." Nucl. Acids Res. 27: 2408-2415.
	
Weijer, C. J. and J. G. Williams (1999). Cell-cell communication in Dictyostelium. Encyclopaedia of Life Sciences., MacMillan Reference Ltd.
	
Weijer, C. J. (1999). Ch. 11. The role of chemotactic cell movement in Dictyostelium morphogenesis. On Growth and Form: Spatio temporal Pattern Formation in Biology. M. A. J. Chaplain, G. D. Singh and J. C. McLachlan. New York, John Wiley & Sons Ltd.: 173-199.
	
Weijer, C. J. (1999). "Morphogenetic cell movement in Dictyostelium." Semin. Cell Dev. Biol. 10: 609-619.
	
Wei, X. and L. Rensing (1999). "Changes in cell morphology and actin organization during heat shock in Dictyostelium discoideum: does HSP70 play a role in acquired thermotolerance?" FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 178: 95-107.
	
Weber, I., et al. (1999). "Cytoskeletal protein mutations and cell motility in Dictyostelium." Biochem. Soc. Symp. 65: 245-265.
	
Weber, I., et al. (1999). "Cytokinesis mediated through the recruitment of cortexillins into the cleavage furrow." EMBO J. 18: 586-594.
	
Weber, I. (1999). "Computer-assisted morphometry of cell-substratum contacts." Croat. Med. J. 40: 334-339.
	
Warnecke, D., et al. (1999). "Cloning and functional expression of UGT genes encoding sterol glucosyltransferases from Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Candida albicans, Pichia pastoris, and Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 274: 13048-13059.
	
Wang, N., et al. (1999). "SDF-2 induction of terminal differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum is mediated by the membrane-spanning sensor kinase DhkA." Mol. Cell. Biol. 19: 4750-4756.
	
Wang, B., et al. (1999). "Multiple developmental roles for CRAC, a cytosolic regulator of adenylyl cyclase." Dev. Biol. 208: 1-13.
	
Vogel, W. (1999). "Discoidin domain receptors: structural relations and functional implications." FASEB J. 13: S77-S82.
	
Virdy, K. J., et al. (1999). "High cAMP in spores of Dictyostelium discoideum: association with spore dormancy and inhibition of germination." Microbiology 145: 1883-1890.
	
Vasiev, B. and C. J. Weijer (1999). "Modeling chemotactic cell sorting during Dictyostelium discoideum mound formation." Biophys. J. 76: 595-605.
	
van Es, S. and P. N. Devreotes (1999). "Molecular basis of localized responses during chemotaxis in amoebae and leukocytes." Cell. Mol. Life Sci. 55: 1341-1351.
	
van Dijk, J., et al. (1999). "Functional characterization of the secondary actin binding site of myosin II." Biochemistry 38: 15078-15085.
	
van Dijk, J., et al. (1999). "Differences in the ionic interaction of actin with the motor domains of nonmuscle and muscle myosin II." Eur. J. Biochem. 260: 672-683.
	
Umeda, T. and K. Inouye (1999). "Theoretical model for morphogenesis and cell sorting in Dictyostelium discoideum." Physica D 126: 189-200.
	
Ulbricht, B. and T. Soldati (1999). "Production of reagents and optimization of methods for studying calmodulin-binding proteins." Prot. Expr. Purif. 15: 24-33.
	
Ueda, M., et al. (1999). "Unusual centrosome cycle in Dictyostelium: Correlation of dynamic behavior and structural changes." Mol. Biol. Cell 10: 151-160.
	
Uchiyama, S., et al. (1999). "Intracellular ribonuclease isozyme activity of the cellular slime mold cells, Dictyostelium discoideum Ax2 and Dictyostelium mucoroides." J. Basic Microbiol. 39: 275-279.
	
Uchida, K. and S. Yumura (1999). "Novel cellular tracks of migrating Dictyostelium cells." Eur. J. Cell Biol. 78: 757-766.
	
Tsujioka, M., et al. (1999). "A unique talin homologue with a villin headpiece-like domain is required for multicellular morphogenesis in Dictyostelium." Curr. Biol. 9: 389-392.
	
Traincard, F., et al. (1999). "Evidence for the presence of an NF-kappaB signal transduction system in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 112: 3529-3535.
	
Titus, M. A. (1999). "A class VII unconventional myosin is required for phagocytosis." Curr. Biol. 9: 1297-1303.
	
Thomason, P. A., et al. (1999). "The RdeA-RegA system, a eukaryotic phospho-relay controlling cAMP breakdown." J. Biol. Chem. 274: 27379-27384.
	
Thomason, P., et al. (1999). "Taking the plunge - terminal differentiation in Dictyostelium." Trends Genet. 15: 15-19.
	
Teng-umnuay, P., et al. (1999). "Identification of a UDP-GlcNAc:Skp1-hydroxyproline GlcNAc-transferase in the cytoplasm of Dictyostelium." J. Biol. Chem. 274: 36392-36402.
	
Tapparo, A., et al. (1999). "The multigene immunophilin family of Dictyostelium discoideum. Characterization of microsomal and mitochondrial cyclophilin isoforms." Biochimie 81: 943-954.
	
Tani, T. and Y. Naitoh (1999). "Chemotactic responses of Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae to a cyclic amp concentration gradient: Evidence to support a spatial mechanism for sensing cyclic AMP." J. Exp. Biol. 202: 1-12.
	
Tanaka, K., et al. (1999). "Identification of protein kinase B (PKB) as a phosphatidylinositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate binding protein in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biosci. Biotechnol. Biochem. 63: 368-372.
	
Takaoka, N., et al. (1999). "Promoter analysis of the membrane protein gp64 gene of the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium pallidum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1447: 226-230.
	
Szafranski, K., et al. (1999). "Non-LTR retrotransposons with unique integration preferences downstream of Dictyostelium discoideum tRNA genes." Mol. Gen. Genet. 262: 772-780.
	
Swanson, A. R., et al. (1999). "Global distribution of forest soil dictyostelids." J. Biogeography 26: 133-148.
	
Sutherland, J. D. and W. Witke (1999). "Molecular genetic approaches to understanding the actin cytoskeleton." Curr. Opin. Cell Biol. 11: 142-151.
	
Surridge, C. (1999). Spotting the goods train. Nature. 402: 598.
	
Suda, H., et al. (1999). "Elasticity of mutant myosin subfragment-1 arranged on a functional silver surface." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 261: 276-282.
	
Stocker, S., et al. (1999). "Phototactic migration of Dictyostelium cells is linked to a new type of gelsolin-related protein." Mol. Biol. ell 10: 161-178.
	
Stock, A., et al. (1999). "Domain analysis of cortexillin I: actin-bundling, PIP(2)-binding and the rescue of cytokinesis." EMBO J. 18: 5274-5284.
	
Stephenson, S. L., et al. (1999). "Protostelids, dictyostelids, and myxomycetes in the litter microhabitat of the Luquillo Experimental Forest, Puerto Rico." Mycol. Res. 103: 209-214.
	
Stege, J. T., et al. (1999). "tip genes act in parallel pathways of early Dictyostelium development." Dev. Genet. 25: 64-77.
	
Srinivasan, S., et al. (1999). "The prespore vesicles of Dictyostelium discoideum - Purification, characterization, and developmental regulation." J. Biol. Chem. 274: 35823-35831.
	
Srinivasan, J., et al. (1999). "Activated Galpha subunits can inhibit multiple signal transduction pathways during Dictyostelium development." Dev. Biol. 215: 443-452.
	
Srinivasan, J. (1999). Analysis of the G(alpha)4 signal transduction pathway and its role in the development of Dictyostelium discoideum. Stillwater, OK, Oklahoma State University (OSU): 156.
	
Souza, G. M., et al. (1999). "Starvation promotes Dictyostelium development by relieving PufA inhibition of PKA translation through the YakA kinase pathway." Development 126: 3263-3274.
	
Soll, D. R. (1999). "Computer-assisted three-dimesional reconstruction and motion analysis of living, crawling cells." Comput. Med. Imag. Graph. 23: 3-14.
	
Soldati, T., et al. (1999). "Unconventional myosins at the crossroad of signal transduction and cytoskeleton remodeling." Protoplasma 209: 28-37.
	
Soldati, T., et al. (1999). "How many is enough? Exploring the myosin repertoire in the model eukaryote Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Biochem. Biophys. 30: 389-411.
	
Soderbom, F., et al. (1999). "An adenylyl cyclase that functions during late development of Dictyostelium." Development 126: 5463-5471.
	
Shu, S., et al. (1999). "Role of myosin II tail sequences in its function and localization at the cleavage furrow in Dictyostelium." J. Cell Sci. 112: 2195-2201.
	
Sherratt, J. A., et al. (1999). Mathematical modelling of signalling in Dictyostelium discoideum. Microbial signalling and communication (Symp. Soc. Gen. Microbiol.). R. England, G. Hobbs, N. Bainton and D. M. Roberts. Cambridge, UK, Cambridge Univ. Press. 57: 241-254.
	
Sharma, S. K., et al. (1999). "Binding and catalytic properties of the Cdc2 and Crp proteins of Dictyostelium." Eur. J. Biochem. 260: 603-608.
	
Shammat, I. M. and D. L. Welker (1999). "Mechanism of action of the Rep protein from the Dictyostelium Ddp2 plasmid family." Plasmid 41: 248-259.
	
Senda, S. (1999). The membrane association of Dictyostelium myosin I. Durham, NC, Duke University: 137.
	
Segall, J. E. (1999). "Cell polarization: chemotaxis gets CRACking." Curr. Biol. 9: R46-R48.
	
Seastone, D. J., et al. (1999). "The small Mr Ras-like GTPase Rap1 and the phospholipase C pathway act to regulate phagocytosis in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Biol. Cell 10: 393-406.
	
Seastone, D. J. (1999). Molecular dissection of the signal transduction pathways regulating phagocytosis and macropinocytosis in Dictyostelium discoideum. Shreveport, LA, Louisiana State University Medical Center: 272.
	
Schwarz, E. C., et al. (1999). "A potentially exhaustive screening strategy reveals two novel divergent myosins in Dictyostelium." Cell Biochem. Biophys. 30: 413-435.
	
Schneider, N., et al. (1999). Microtubule-dependent Golgi disassembly and reconstitution during mitosis in Dictyostelium discoideum. GFP in Motion (Trends in Cell Biology; Suppl. on CD ROM, section cell division). B. Ludin and A. Matus. 9.
	
Schenk, P. W. and B. E. Snaar-Jagalska (1999). "Signal perception and transduction: the role of protein kinases." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1449: 1-24.
	
Schenk, P. W., et al. (1999). "A serpentine receptor-dependent, Gbeta- and Ca2+ influx-independent pathway regulates mitogen-activated protein kinase ERK2 in Dictyostelium." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 260: 504-509.
	
Schaap, P. and J. G. Williams (1999). Ch. 6: Cell communication in Dictyostelium. Development, Genetics, Epigenetics and Environmental Regulation. V. E. A. Russo, D. J. Cove, L. G. Edgar, R. Jaenisch and F. Salamini. Berlin, Springer-Verlag: 83-97.
	
Saxe, C. L. (1999). "Insights from model systems. Learning from the slime mold: Dictyostelium and human disease." Am. J. Hum. Genet. 65: 25-30.
	
Sasaki, N., et al. (1999). "Deletion of the myopathy loop of Dictyostelium myosin II and its impact on motor functions." J. Biol. Chem. 274: 37840-37844.
	
Saran, S. (1999). "Calcium levels during cell cycle correlate with cell fate of Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Biol. Int. 23: 399-405.
	
Saito, T. and H. Ochiai (1999). "Identification of delta-5-fatty acid desaturase from the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Eur. J. Biochem. 265: 809-814.
	
Russell, R. G. G., et al. (1999). "The pharmacology of bisphosphonates and new insights into their mechanisms of action." J. Bone Miner. Res. 14: 53-65.
	
Rudolph, M. G., et al. (1999). "The novel fluorescent CDP-analogue (Pbeta)MABA-CDP is a specific probe for the NMP binding site of UMP/CMP kinase." Prot. Sci. 8: 2697-2704.
	
Root, P. A., et al. (1999). "Aggregation of Dictyostelium discoideum is dependent on myristoylation and membrane localization of the G protein alpha-subunit, Galpha2." J. Cell. Biochem. 74: 301-311.
	
Rivero, F., et al. (1999). "Three actin cross-linking proteins, the 34 kDa actin-bundling protein, alpha-actinin and gelation factor (ABP-120), have both unique and redundant roles in the growth and development of Dictyostelium." J. Cell Sci. 112: 2737-2751.
	
Rivero, F., et al. (1999). "RacF1, a novel member of the Rho protein family in Dictyostelium discoideum, associates transiently with cell contact areas, macropinosomes, and phagosomes." Mol. Biol. Cell 10: 1205-1219.
	
Reddy, T. B. and S. Chatterjee (1999). "Cisplatin inhibits folic acid chemotaxis and phagocytotic functions in Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Biol. Int. 23: 227-233.
	
Rappel, W. J., et al. (1999). "Self-organized vortex state in two-dimensional Dictyostelium dynamics." Phys. Rev. Lett. 83: 1247-1250.
	
Pun, J. (1999). The regulation of expression of the cbpA gene during Dictyostelium development. Toronto, ON (Canada), York University: 96.
	
Pukatzki, S. (1999). Protein degradation during development of Dictyostelium discoideum: the role of ubiquitin, ubiquitin-like proteins, and NosA. New York, NY, Columbia University: 126.
	
Pollock, N., et al. (1999). "Reconstitution of membrane transport powered by a novel dimeric kinesin motor of the Unc104/KIF1A family purified from Dictyostelium." J. Cell Biol. 147: 493-505.
	
Pollock, N. (1999). Reconstitution of microtubule-based organelle transport using factors purified from Dictyostelium. San Francisco, University of California (UCSF): 135.
	
Plyte, S. E., et al. (1999). "Glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3) is regulated during Dictyostelium development via the serpentine receptor cAR3." Development 126: 325-333.
	
Parent, C. A. and P. N. Devreotes (1999). "A cell's sense of direction." Science 284: 765-770.
	
Pang, K. M., et al. (1999). "Variables controlling the expression level of exogenous genes in Dictyostelium." Plasmid 41: 187-197.
	
Orosz, F., et al. (1999). "Phosphofructokinase from Dictyostelium discoideum is a potent inhibitor of tubulin polymerization." Biochemistry 38: 1857-1865.
	
Norian, L., et al. (1999). "Molecular characterization of rabE, a developmentally regulated Dictyostelium homolog of mammalian rab GTPases." DNA Cell Biol. 18: 59-64.
	
Noegel, A. A., et al. (1999). "Assessing the role of the ASP56/CAP homologue of Dictyostelium discoideum and the requirements for subcellular localization." J. Cell Sci. 112: 3195-3203.
	
Nicol, A., et al. (1999). "Cell-sorting in aggregates of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 112: 3923-3929.
	
Neujahr, R., et al. (1999). Cytokinesis in uni-and multinucleate myosin II-null cells of Dictyostelium discoideum. GFP in Motion (Trends in Cell Biology; Suppl. on CD ROM, section cell division). B. Ludin and A. Matus. 9.
	
Natarajan, K. (1999). Characterization of the G(alpha)5 G protein signal transduction pathway and its specificity in the development of Dictyostelium discoideum. Stillwater, OK, Oklahoma State University (OSU): 169.
	
Nakagawa, M., et al. (1999). "A prespore-cell-inducing factor in Dictyostelium discoideum: its purification and characterization." Biochem. J. 343: 265-271.
	
Murphy, M. B., et al. (1999). "Molecular characterization and immunolocalization of Dictyostelium discoideum protein phosphatase 2A." FEBS Lett. 456: 7-12.
	
Murphy, M. B. and T. T. Egelhoff (1999). "Biochemical characterization of a Dictyostelium myosin II heavy-chain phosphatase that promotes filament assembly." Eur. J. Biochem. 264: 582-590.
	
Murphy, C. T. and J. A. Spudich (1999). "The sequence of the myosin 50-20K loop affects myosin's affinity for actin throughout the actin-myosin ATPase cycle and its maximum ATPase activity." Biochemistry 38: 3785-3792.
	
Murphy, C. T. (1999). The role of variable loops and the conserved core in myosin function. Stanford, CA, Stanford University: 164.
	
Morrissette, N. S., et al. (1999). "Isolation and characterization of monoclonal antibodies directed against novel components of macrophage phagosomes." J. Cell Sci. 112: 4705-4713.
	
Moniakis, J., et al. (1999). "Involvement of the Ca2+-ATPase PAT1 and the contractile vacuole in calcium regulation in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 112: 405-414.
	
Mohanty, S., et al. (1999). "Evidence that the Dictyostelium Dd-STATa protein is a repressor that regulates commitment to stalk cell differentiation and is also required for efficient chemotaxis." Development 126: 3391-3405.
	
Mohanty, S. and R. A. Firtel (1999). "Control of spatial patterning and cell-type proportioning in Dictyostelium." Semin. Cell Dev. Biol. 10: 597-607.
	
Meinhardt, H. (1999). "Orientation of chemotactic cells and growth cones: models and mechanisms." J. Cell Sci. 112: 2867-2874.
	
Meima, M. E. and P. Schaap (1999). "Fingerprinting of adenylyl cyclase activities during Dictyostelium development indicates a dominant role for adenylyl cyclase B in terminal differentiation." Dev. Biol. 212: 182-190.
	
Meima, M. and P. Schaap (1999). "Dictyostelium development - Socializing through cAMP." Semin. Cell Dev. Biol. 10: 567-576.
	
Meili, R., et al. (1999). "Chemoattractant-mediated transient activation and membrane localization of Akt/PKB is required for efficient chemotaxis to cAMP in Dictyostelium." EMBO J. 18: 2092-2105.
	
McCoy, A. J., et al. (1999). "Structural basis for dimerization of the Dictyostelium gelation factor (ABP120) rod." Nature Struct. Biol. 6: 836-841.
	
McCann, R. O. and S. W. Craig (1999). "Functional genomic analysis reveals the utility of the I/LWEQ module as a predictor of protein:actin interaction." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 266: 135-140.
	
Matsuda, Y., et al. (1999). "Analysis of the disruption mutant of the oscillin homolog gene of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biol. Pharmaceut. Bull. 22: 915-919.
	
Maselli, A. G. (1999). Studies of the localization and regulation of the Dictyostelium 34 kDa actin bundling protein in vivo. Athens, GA, University of Georgia: 134.
	
Maree, A. F. M., et al. (1999). "Migration and thermotaxis of Dictyostelium discoideum slugs, a model study." J. Theor. Biol. 199: 297-309.
	
Maree, A. F. M., et al. (1999). "Phototaxis during the slug stage of Dictyostelium discoideum: a model study." Proc. R. Soc. Lond. B 266: 1351-1360.
	
Maniak, M. (1999). "Endocytic transit in Dictyostelium discoideum." Protoplasma 210: 25-30.
	
Maniak, M. (1999). "Green fluorescent protein in the visualization of particle uptake and fluid-phase endocytosis." Meth. Enzymol. 302: 43-50.
	
Mangiarotti, G. (1999). "Coupling of transcription and translation in Dictyostelium discoideum nuclei." Biochemistry 38: 3996-4000.
	
Mahasneh, A. (1999). Characterization of a Dictyostelium myosin I heavy-chain kinase. Kingston, ON (Canada), Queen's University: 172.
	
Ma, S., et al. (1999). "Dynein intermediate chain mediated dynein-dynactin interaction is required for interphase microtubule organization and centrosome replication and separation in Dictyostelium." J. Cell Biol. 147: 1261-1273.
	
Ma, H. (1999). Cloning and characterization of a Dictyostelium MAP kinase MEK1 and its interacting protein. La Jolla, University of California, San Diego (UCSD): 127.
	
Loomis, W. F. and R. H. Insall (1999). Box 1: The Dictyostelium genome project. Nature. 401: 440.
	
Loomis, W. F. and R. H. Insall (1999). Cell biology - A cell for all reasons. Nature. 401: 440-441.
	
Linskens, M. H. K., et al. (1999). "Random mutagenesis and screening of complex glycoproteins: expression of human gonadotropins in Dictyostelium discoideum." FASEB J. 13: 639-645.
	
Linskens, M. H. K., et al. (1999). Expression of gonadotropins in Dictyostelium. International, Linskens,MHK; AKZO Nobel NV; Blaauw,M; Grootenhuis,PDJ; van Haastert,PJM; Heikoop,JC. Wo1998ep05717: 7 claims.
	
Lin, S. P. and Z. Y. Yeh (1999). "Six species of dictyostelid cellular slime molds isolated from Yang-Ming Shan district of Taipei." Biol. Bull. Natl. Taiwan Normal Univ. 34: 69-80.
	
Lim, R. W. L., et al. (1999). "Evidence of intramolecular regulation of the Dictyostelium discoideum 34000 Da F-actin-bundling protein." Biochemistry 38: 16323-16332.
	
Lim, R. W. L., et al. (1999). "Three distinct F-actin binding sites in the Dictyostelium discoideum 34 000 Dalton actin bundling protein." Biochemistry 38: 800-812.
	
Liang, W. C., et al. (1999). "A structural model for phosphorylation control of Dictyostelium myosin II thick filament assembly." J. Cell Biol. 147: 1039-1047.
	
Lee, S., et al. (1999). "A novel Ras-interacting protein required for chemotaxis and cyclic adenosine monophosphate signal relay in Dictyostelium." Mol. Biol. Cell 10: 2829-2845.
	
Lee, E. (1999). Function and localization of Rac proteins in Dictyostelium. Storrs, CT, The University of Connecticut: 200.
	
Kwak, E., et al. (1999). "LvsA, a protein related to the mouse beige protein, is required for cytokinesis in Dictyostelium." Mol. Biol. Cell 10: 4429-4439.
	
Kubohara, Y. and K. Hosaka (1999). "The putative morphogen, DIF-1, of Dictyostelium discoideum activates Akt/PKB in human leukemia K562 cells." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 263: 790-796.
	
Kubohara, Y. (1999). "Zinc induces cell differentiation." Protein, Nucleic Acid, and Enzymes 44: 199.
	
Kubohara, Y. (1999). "Effects of differentiation-inducing factors of Dictyostelium discoideum on human leukemia K562 cells: DIF-3 is the most potent anti-leukemic agent." Eur. J. Pharmacol. 381: 57-62.
	
Krimper, R. P. and T. H. D. Jones (1999). "Purification and characterization of tripeptidyl peptidase I from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Mol. Biol. Int. 47: 1079-1088.
	
Koonce, M. P., et al. (1999). "Dynein motor regulation stabilizes interphase microtubule arrays and determines centrosome position." EMBO J. 18: 6786-6792.
	
Konzok, A., et al. (1999). "DAip1, a Dictyostelium homologue of the yeast actin-interacting protein 1, is involved in endocytosis, cytokinesis, and motility." J. Cell Biol. 146: 453-464.
	
Knetsch, M. L. W., et al. (1999). "Disturbed communication between actin- and nucleotide-binding sites in a myosin II with truncated 50/20-kDa junction." J. Biol. Chem. 274: 20133-20138.
	
Kloboucek, A., et al. (1999). "Adhesion-induced receptor segregation and adhesion plaque formation: A model membrane study." Biophys. J. 77: 2311-2328.
	
Kirshenbaum, K., et al. (1999). "Predicting allosteric switches in myosins." Prot. Sci. 8: 1806-1815.
	
Kim, L., et al. (1999). "The novel tyrosine kinase ZAK1 activates GSK3 to direct cell fate specification." Cell 99: 399-408.
	
Kessen, U., et al. (1999). "Ca2+/calmodulin-independent activation of calcineurin from Dictyostelium by unsaturated long chain fatty acids." J. Biol. Chem. 274: 37821-37826.
	
Kellerman, K. A. and J. G. McNally (1999). "Mound-cell movement and morphogenesis in Dictyostelium." Dev. Biol. 208: 416-429.
	
Kay, R. R. and J. G. Williams (1999). "The Dictyostelium genome project - an invitation to species hopping." Trends Genet. 15: 294-297.
	
Kay, R. R., et al. (1999). "DIF signalling and cell fate." Semin. Cell Dev. Biol. 10: 577-585.
	
Kawakami, S. I. and H. Hagiwara (1999). "Macrocyst formation in three distyostelid species, Dictyostelium monochasioides, Polysphondylium candidum, and P. pseudo-candidum." Mycoscience 40: 359-361.
	
Kawabe, Y., et al. (1999). "LbrA, a protein predicted to have a role in vesicle trafficking, is necessary for normal morphogenesis in Polysphondylium pallidum." Gene 239: 75-79.
	
Karakesisoglou, I., et al. (1999). "Identification of a suppressor of the Dictyostelium profilin-minus phenotype as a CD36/LIMP-II homologue." J. Cell Biol. 145: 167-181.
	
Journet, A., et al. (1999). "Characterization of Dictyostelium discoideum cathepsin D - Molecular cloning, gene disruption, endo-lysosomal localization and sugar modifications." J. Cell Sci. 112: 3833-3843.
	
Jaffe, L. F. (1999). "Organization of early development by calcium patterns." Bioessays 21: 657-667.
	
Ivanitskii, G. R. (1999). "Biophysics at the turn the century: Autowaves." Biofizika 44: 773-795.
	
Ito, K., et al. (1999). "Cooperativity between two heads of Dictyostelium myosin II in in vitro motility and ATP hydrolysis." Biophys. J. 76: 985-992.
	
Inokuchi, N., et al. (1999). "Comparison of base specificity and other enzymatic properties of two protozoan ribonucleases from Physarum polycephalum and Dictyostelium discoideum." Biosci. Biotechnol. Biochem. 63: 141-145.
	
Inazu, Y., et al. (1999). "Transient expression of a mitochondrial gene cluster including rps4 is essential for the phase-shift of Dictyostelium cells from growth to differentiation." Dev. Genet. 25: 339-352.
	
Hughes, J. E. and D. L. Welker (1999). Nuclear plasmids of Dictyostelium. Genetic engineering: principles and methods. J. K. Setlow. New York, Kluwer Academic. 21: 1-14.
	
Huang, H. J. and C. Pears (1999). "Cell cycle-dependent regulation of early developmental genes." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1452: 296-302.
	
Hsu, Y. S., et al. (1999). "A negative regulatory element in a prespore-specific promoter of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1447: 64-70.
	
Hoskin, F. C. G., et al. (1999). "Organophosphorus acid anhydrolase in slime mold duckweed and mung bean: a continuing search for a physiological role and a natural substrate." Chem. Biol. Interact. 120: 399-404.
	
Horn, J., et al. (1999). "A Dictyostelium protein binds to distinct oligo(dA).oligo(dT) DNA sequences in the C-module of the retrotransposable element DRE." Eur. J. Biochem. 265: 441-448.
	
Hodgson, H. (1999). Dictyostelid cellular slime moulds of the United Kingdom: isolation, identification and distribution. Cambridge, UK, Anglia Polytechnic Univ.
	
Hirose, K. and L. A. Amos (1999). "Three-dimensional structure of motor molecules." Cell. Mol. Life Sci. 56: 184-199.
	
Hata, T., et al. (1999). "A new member of the GP138 multigene family implicated in cell interactions in Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Struct. Funct. 24: 123-129.
	
Hasson, T. (1999). "Molecular motors: Sensing a function for myosin-VIIa." Curr. Biol. 9: R838-R841.
	
Hanakam, F. and G. Gerisch (1999). "Monitoring intracellular shuttling of histidine-rich pH sensor proteins tagged with green fluorescent protein." Meth. Enzymol. 302: 51-58.
	
Hadwiger, J. A. and J. Srinivasan (1999). "Folic acid stimulation of the Galpha4 G protein-mediated signal transduction pathway inhibits anterior prestalk cell development in Dictyostelium." Differentiation 64: 195-204.
	
Habura, A., et al. (1999). "Interaction mapping of a dynein heavy chain - Identification of dimerization and intermediate-chain binding domains." J. Biol. Chem. 274: 15447-15453.
	
Gupta, R., et al. (1999). "Scanning the available Dictyostelium discoideum proteome for O-linked GlcNAc glycosylation sites using neural networks." Glycobiology 9: 1009-1022.
	
Gupta, R., et al. (1999). "O-GLYCBASE version 4.0: a revised database of O-glycosylated proteins." Nucl. Acids Res. 27: 370-372.
	
Guo, K. D., et al. (1999). "Isolation of spermidine synthase gene (spsA) of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biopohys. Acta 1449: 211-216.
	
Guo, K., et al. (1999). "A myb-related protein required for culmination in Dictyostelium." Development 126: 2813-2822.
	
Gruen, M., et al. (1999). "2'Halo-ATP and -GTP analogues: Rational phasing tools for protein crystallography." Prot. Sci. 8: 2524-2528.
	
Graf, R., et al. (1999). "Cell cycle-dependent localization of monoclonal antibodies raised against isolated Dictyostelium centrosomes." Biol. Cell 91: 471-477.
	
Gonzales, C. M., et al. (1999). "Dgp1 and Dfp1 are closely related plasmids in the Dictyostelium Ddp2 plasmid family." Plasmid 41: 89-96.
	
Gonin, P., et al. (1999). "Catalytic mechanism of nucleoside diphosphate kinase investigated using nucleotide analogues, viscosity effects, and X-ray crystallography." Biochemistry 38: 7265-7272.
	
Gomer, R. H. (1999). "Gene identification by shotgun antisense." Methods - A Companion to Methods in Enzymology 18: 311-315.
	
Gomer, R. H. (1999). "Cell density sensing in a eukaryote." ASM News 65: 23-29.
	
Gerisch, G., et al. (1999). Patterns of cellular activities based on protein sorting in cell motility, endocytosis and cytokinesis. Cell Behaviour: Control and Mechanism of Motility (Biochem. Soc. Symp.). J. M. Lackie, G. A. Dunn and G. E. Jones. London, UK, Portland Press. 65: 1-14.
	
Gerisch, G. (1999). "Zellen lassen die "Muskeln" spielen." MaxPlanckForschung 1/99: 34-41.
	
Geeves, M. A. and K. C. Holmes (1999). "Structural mechanism of muscle contraction." Annu. Rev. Biochem. 68: 687-728.
	
Gaudet, P. and A. Tsang (1999). "Regulation of the ribonucleotide reductase small subunit gene by DNA-damaging agents in Dictyostelium discoideum." Nucl. Acids Res. 27: 3042-3048.
	
Gamper, M., et al. (1999). "Regulation of Dictyostelium protein-tyrosine phosphatase-3 (PTP3) through osmotic shock and stress stimulation and identification of pp130 as a PTP3 substrate." J. Biol. Chem. 274: 12129-12138.
	
Gabriel, D., et al. (1999). "The contractile vacuole network of Dictyostelium as a distinct organelle: its dynamics visualized by a GFP marker protein. Correction: 112:U3(1999)." J. Cell Sci. 112: 3995-4005.
	
Furch, M., et al. (1999). "Role of the salt-bridge between switch-1 and switch-2 of Dictyostelium myosin." J. Mol. Biol. 290: 797-809.
	
Fukui, Y., et al. (1999). "Migration forces in Dictyostelium measured by centrifuge DIC microscopy." Biol. Bull. 197: 260-262.
	
Fukui, Y., et al. (1999). "Myosin II-independent F-actin flow contributes to cell locomotion in Dictyostelium." J. Cell Sci. 112: 877-886.
	
Fukui, Y., et al. (1999). "Architectural dynamics and gene replacement of coronin suggest its role in cytokinesis." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 42: 204-217.
	
Fukui, Y., et al. (1999). "Architectural dynamics of F-actin in eupodia suggests their role in invasive locomotion in Dictyostelium." Exp. Cell Res. 249: 33-45.
	
Fucini, P., et al. (1999). "Molecular architecture of the rod domain of the Dictyostelium gelation factor (ABP120)." J. Mol. Biol. 291: 1017-1023.
	
Fey, P. and E. C. Cox (1999). "Cortexillin I is required for development in Polysphondylium." Dev. Biol. 212: 414-424.
	
Eichinger, L., et al. (1999). "Dictyostelium as model system for studies of the actin cytoskeleton by molecular genetics." Microsc. Res. Techn. 47: 124-134.
	
Early, A. (1999). "Signalling pathways that direct prestalk and stalk cell differentiation in Dictyostelium." Semin. Cell Dev. Biol. 10: 587-595.
	
Deichsel, H., et al. (1999). "Green fluorescent proteins with short half-lives as reporters in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Genes Evol. 209: 63-68.
	
Deery, W. J. and R. H. Gomer (1999). "A putative receptor mediating cell-density sensing in Dictyostelium." J. Biol. Chem. 274: 34476-34482.
	
Dearolf, C. R. (1999). "JAKs and STATs in invertebrate model organisms." Cell. Mol. Life Sci. 55: 1578-1584.
	
de Hostos, E. L. (1999). "The coronin family of actin-associated proteins." Trends Cell Biol. 9: 345-350.
	
Davies, E., et al. (1999). "A weak pulsed magnetic field affects adenine nucleotide oscillations, and related parameters in aggregating Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae." Bioelectrochem. Bioenerg. 48: 149-162.
	
Daunderer, C., et al. (1999). "Dictyostelium discoideum: A promising centrosome model system." Biol. Cell 91: 313-320.
	
Dai, J. W., et al. (1999). "Myosin I contributes to the generation of resting cortical tension." Biophys. J. 77: 1168-1176.
	
da Silva, A. M., et al. (1999). "Searching for the role of protein phosphatases in eukaryotic microorganisms." Braz. J. Med. Biol. Res. 32: 835-839.
	
Cotter, D. A., et al. (1999). "Ammonium phosphate in sori of Dictyostelium discoideum promotes spore dormancy through stimulation of the osmosensor ACG." Microbiology 145: 1891-1901.
	
Clow, P. A. and J. G. McNally (1999). "In vivo observations of myosin II dynamics support a role in rear retraction." Mol. Biol. Cell 10: 1309-1323.
	
Clow, P. A. (1999). Movement and sorting of Dictyostelium during multicellular development. St. Louis, MO, Washington University: 150.
	
Chung, C. Y. and R. A. Firtel (1999). "PAKa, a putative PAK family member, is required for cytokinesis and the regulation of the cytoskeleton in Dictyostelium discoideum cells during chemotaxis." J. Cell Biol. 147: 559-575.
	
Choi, W. S., et al. (1999). "Purification and characterization of a novel dipeptidyl peptidase from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Mol. Biol. Int. 47: 455-464.
	
Chen, P. X., et al. (1999). "Expression of chicken gizzard RLC complements the cytokinesis and developmental defects of Dictyostelium RLC null cells." J. Muscle Res. Cell Motil. 20: 177-186.
	
Chaudoir, B. M., et al. (1999). "Regulatory light chain mutations affect myosin motor function and kinetics." J. Cell Sci. 112: 1611-1620.
	
Chanchao, C., et al. (1999). "5'-Nucleotidase in Dictyostelium: protein purification, cloning, and developmental expression." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1473: 376-390.
	
Cavallo, D., et al. (1999). "Differential in vitro activation and deactivation of cysteine proteinases isolated during spore germination and vegetative growth of Dictyostelium discoideum." Eur. J. Biochem. 266: 132-142.
	
Buss, L. W. (1999). "Slime molds, ascidians, and the utility of evolutionary theory." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 96: 8801-8803.
	
Brown, J. M. and R. A. Firtel (1999). "Regulation of cell-fate determination in Dictyostelium." Dev. Biol. 216: 426-441.
	
Brock, D. A. and R. H. Gomer (1999). "A cell-counting factor regulating structure size in Dictyostelium." Genes Devel. 13: 1960-1969.
	
Bretschneider, T., et al. (1999). "A model for Dictyostelium slug movement." J. Theor. Biol. 199: 125-136.
	
Bonner, J. T., et al. (1999). "Expression of prestalk and prespore proteins in minute, two-dimensional Dictyostelium slugs." Mech. Devel. 88: 253-254.
	
Bonner, J. T. (1999). A future for soil ecology. Boll. Soc. Hist. Nat. Balears. 42: 11-12.
	
Bonner, J. T. (1999). "The history of the cellular slime moulds as a ''model system'' for developmental biology." J. Biosci. 24: 7-12.
	
Bonfils, C., et al. (1999). "Identification of cis-regulating elements and trans-acting factors regulating the expression of the gene encoding the small subunit of ribonucleotide reductase in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 274: 20384-20390.
	
Bof, M., et al. (1999). "The mitochondrial adenine nucleotide translocator from Dictyostelium discoideum - Functional characterization and DNA sequencing." Eur. J. Biochem. 259: 795-800.
	
Becker, M., et al. (1999). "Drainin required for membrane fusion of the contractile vacuole in Dictyostelium is the prototype of a protein family also represented in man." EMBO J. 18: 3305-3316.
	
Batra, R. and D. J. Manstein (1999). "Functional characterisation of Dictyostelium myosin II with conserved tryptophanyl residue 501 mutated to tyrosine." Biol. Chem. 380: 1017-1023.
	
Batra, R., et al. (1999). "Kinetic analysis of Dictyostelium discoideum myosin motor domains with glycine-to-alanine mutations in the reactive thiol region." Biochemistry 38: 6126-6134.
	
Barth, C., et al. (1999). "Polycistronic transcription and editing of the mitochondrial small subunit (SSU) ribosomal RNA in Dictyostelium discoideum." Curr. Genet. 36: 55-61.
	
Barre, A., et al. (1999). "Homology modelling of the core domain of the endogenous lectin comitin: structural basis for its mannose-binding specificity." Plant Mol. Biol. 39: 969-978.
	
Barisic, K., et al. (1999). The actin-associated protein coronin in chemotaxis, cytokinesis, and phagocytosis of Dictyostelium discoideum. GFP in Motion (Trends in Cell Biology; Suppl. on CD ROM, section cell division). B. Ludin and A. Matus. 9.
	
Baldauf, S. L. (1999). "A search for the origin of animals and fungi: comparing and combining molecular data." Am. Naturalist 154: S178-S188.
	
Aubry, L. and R. Firtel (1999). "Integration of signaling networks that regulate Dictyostelium differentiation." Annu. Rev. Cell Dev. Biol. 15: 469-517.
	
Arkowitz, R. A. (1999). "Responding to attraction: chemotaxis and chemotropism in Dictyostelium and yeast." Trends Cell Biol. 9: 20-27.
	
Aizawa, H., et al. (1999). "Hyperosmotic stress-induced reorganization of actin bundles in Dictyostelium cells." Genes Cells 4: 311-324.
	
Aguado-Velasco, C. and M. S. Bretscher (1999). "Circulation of the plasma membrane in Dictyostelium." Mol. Biol. Cell 10: 4419-4427.
	
Agarwal, A. K., et al. (1999). "Ribosomal protein gene expression is cell type specific during development in Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 65: 73-88.
	
Agarwal, A. K. and D. D. Blumberg (1999). "Dictyostelium ribosomal protein genes and the elongation factor 1B gene show coordinate developmental regulation which is under post-transcriptional control." Differentiation 64: 247-254.
	
Admiraal, S. J., et al. (1999). "Nucleophilic activation by positioning in phosphoryl transfer catalyzed by nucleoside diphosphate kinase." Biochemistry 38: 4701-4711.
	
Adelt, S., et al. (1999). "Enzyme-assisted total synthesis of the optical antipodes D-myo-inositol 3,4,5-trisphosphate and D-myo-inositol 1,5,6-trisphosphate: aspects of their structure-activity relationship to biologically active inositol phosphates." J. Medicinal Chem. 42: 1262-1273.
	
(1999). Ch. 19: Glycosylation in "model" organisms. Sub-chapter: Dictyostelium discoideum - Life cycle and development. Essentials of Glycobiology. A. Varki, R. Cummings, J. Esko et al. Cold Spring Harbor, NY, CSH Lab. Press: 289-292.
	
Zinda, M. J. and C. K. Singleton (1998). "The hybrid histidine kinase dhkB regulates spore germination in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 196: 171-183.
	
Zimmermann, T. and F. Siegert (1998). "4D confocal microscopy of Dictyostelium discoideum morphogenesis and its presentation on the Internet." Dev. Genes Evol. 208: 411-420.
	
Zimmermann, T. and F. Siegert (1998). "Simultaneous detection of two GFP spectral mutants during in vivo confocal microscopy of migrating Dictyostelium cells." Biotechniques 24: 458-461.
	
Zimmer, C. (1998). "The slime alternative." Discover 19 (Sept.): 86-93.
	
Zhou, K., et al. (1998). "Disruption of Dictyostelium PI3K genes reduces [32P]phosphatidylinositol 3,4 bisphosphate and [32P]phosphatidylinositol trisphosphate levels, alters F-actin distribution and impairs pinocytosis." J. Cell Sci. 111: 283-294.
	
Zhang, Y. Y., et al. (1998). "Two proteins of the Dictyostelium spore coat bind to cellulose in vitro." Biochemistry 37: 10766-10779.
	
Zhang, Y. (1998). Protein-cellulose interactions in the spore coat of Dictyostelium discoideum. Gainesville, FL, University of Florida: 143.
	
Zang, J. H. and J. A. Spudich (1998). "Myosin II localization during cytokinesis occurs by a mechanism that does not require its motor domain." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 95: 13652-13657.
	
Zaccaria, D., et al. (1998). "UGUS, a reporter for use with destabilizing N-termini." Nucl. Acids Res. 26: 1128-1129.
	
Yumura, S. and Y. Fukui (1998). "Spatiotemporal dynamics of actin concentration during cytokinesis and locomotion in Dictyostelium." J. Cell Sci. 111: 2097-2108.
	
Yu, S. L., et al. (1998). "Rapid changes of nucleotide excision repair gene expression following UV-irradiation and cisplatin treatment of Dictyostelium discoideum." Nucl. Acids Res. 26: 3397-3403.
	
Yasukawa, H., et al. (1998). "Identification and analysis of a gene that is essential for morphogenesis and prespore cell differentiation in Dictyostelium." Development 125: 2565-2576.
	
Xiao, Z. (1998). Studies of cAR1, the major cAMP chemoattractant receptor of Dictyostelium discoideum: distributions during chemotaxis and desensitization, purification and biochemical characterizations. Baltimore, MD, The Johns Hopkins University: 91.
	
Winckler, T., et al. (1998). "Tdd-3, a tRNA gene-associated poly(A) retrotransposon from Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Gen. Genet. 257: 655-661.
	
Winckler, T. (1998). "Retrotransposable elements in the Dictyostelium discoideum genome." Cell. Mol. Life Sci. 54: 383-393.
	
Wessels, D., et al. (1998). "A computer-assisted system for reconstructing and interpreting the dynamic three-dimensional relationships of the outer surface, nucleus and pseudopods of crawling cells." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 41: 225-246.
	
Wessels, D. and D. R. Soll (1998). Computer-assisted characterization of the behavioral defects of cytoskeletal mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum. Motion analysis of living cells. D. R. Soll and D. Wessels. New York, Wiley-Liss: 101-140.
	
Wen, X., et al. (1998). "The glycogen phosphorylase-2 promoter binding protein in Dictyostelium is replication protein A." J. Mol. Biol. 284: 903-913.
	
Weidenhaupt, M., et al. (1998). "Identification of the Dictyostelium discoideum homolog of the N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive fusion protein." Gene 207: 53060.
	
Wang, Y. W. and J. E. Segall (1998). "The Dictyostelium MAP kinase DdERK2 functions as a cytosolic protein in complexes with its potential substrates in chemotactic signal transduction." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 244: 149-155.
	
Wang, Y., et al. (1998). "MAP kinase function in amoeboid cells." J. Cell Sci. 111: 373-383.
	
Wang, Y. (1998). Analysis of the MAP kinase, DdERK2, in chemotactic signal transduction of Dictyostelium. New York, NY, Yeshiva University: 130.
	
Walsh, B. J., et al. (1998). "The Australian proteome analysis facility (APAF): assembling large scale proteomics through integration and automation." Electrophoresis 19: 1883-1890.
	
Voith, G., et al. (1998). "Expression of the rat muscarinic receptor gene m3 in Dictyostelium discoideum." Pharmazie 53: 707-710.
	
Vithalani, K. K., et al. (1998). "Identification of darlin, a Dictyostelium protein with armadillo-like repeats that binds to small GTPases and is important for the proper aggregation of developing cells." Mol. Biol. Cell 9: 3095-3106.
	
Verkerke-van Wijk, I., et al. (1998). "Functional promiscuity of gene regulation by serpentine receptors in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cell. Biol. 18: 5744-5749.
	
Verkerke-van Wijk, I., et al. (1998). "Two distinct signaling pathways mediate DIF induction of prestalk gene expression in Dictyostelium." Exp. Cell Res. 245: 179-185.
	
Vasiev, B. N. and C. J. Weijer (1998). From single cells to a multicellular organism: the development of the social amoebae Dictyostelium discoideum. Lecture notes in physics monographs. F. Busse and S. C. Mueller. New York, Springer. m55: 559-583.
	
Valkema, R. (1998). Regulation of adenylyl and guanylyl cycles in Dictyostelium discoideum. Groningen, Netherlands, Rijksuniversiteit Groningen: 114.
	
Vadell, E. M. and J. C. Cavender (1998). "Polysphondylium from forest soils of Tikal, Guatemala." Mycologia 90: 715-725.
	
Urushihara, H. (1998). "Sexual reproduction in cellular slime molds: a prototypic mating system." Tanpakushitsu Kakusan Koso 43: 330-336.
	
Tillner, J., et al. (1998). "Evaluation of the teratogenic potential of valproic acid analogues in transgenic Dictyostelium discoideum strains." Toxicol. in Vitro 12: 463-469.
	
Thomason, P. A., et al. (1998). "An intersection of the cAMP/PKA and two-component signal transduction systems in Dictyostelium." EMBO J. 17: 2838-2845.
	
Teng-umnuay, P., et al. (1998). "The cytoplasmic F-box binding protein SKP1 contains a novel pentasaccharide linked to hydroxyproline in Dictyostelium." J. Biol. Chem. 273: 18242-18249.
	
Teng-umnuay, P. (1998). Structure of a Skp1-glycan and biogenesis of its peptide linkage in Dictyostelium. Gainesville, FL, University of Florida: 140.
	
Tekos, A., et al. (1998). "Bimodal action of alkaline earth cations on Dictyostelium discoideum ribonuclease P activity." Biochemistry 37: 15474-15480.
	
Tatischeff, I., et al. (1998). "Dictyostelium discoideum cells shed vesicles with associated DNA and vital stain Hoechst 33342." Cell. Mol. Life Sci. 54: 476-487.
	
Tapparo, A., et al. (1998). "Cloning, sequencing and developmental expression of the genes encoding S4 and S10 ribosomal proteins in the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Curr. Genet. 34: 410-418.
	
Tanaka, Y., et al. (1998). "The signals for starvation response are transduced through elevated [Ca2+]i in Dictyostelium cells." Exp. Cell Res. 240: 340-348.
	
Tameyasu, T., et al. (1998). "Steady-state force velocity relation of ATP-dependent sliding between slime mold myosin, arranged on paramyosin filaments, and algal cell actin cables." Compar. Biochem. Physiol. 120A: 731-736.
	
Takahashi, A. (1998). "The effects of space environment on differentiation and mutation frequency in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biol. Sci. Space 12: 180-181.
	
Szick, K., et al. (1998). "Evolutionary analyses of the 12-kDa acidic ribosomal P- proteins reveal a distinct protein of higher plant ribosomes." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 95: 2378-2383.
	
Suzuki, Y., et al. (1998). "Swing of the lever arm of a myosin motor at the isomerization and phosphate-release steps." Nature 396: 380-383.
	
Sutherland, P. J., et al. (1998). "Dictyostelium discoideum fatty-acyl amidase II has deacylase activity on Rhizobium nodulation factors." J. Biol. Chem. 273: 4459-4464.
	
Sukumaran, S., et al. (1998). "lagC-null and gbf-null cells define key steps in the morphogenesis of Dictyostelium mounds." Dev. Biol. 200: 16-26.
	
Stites, J., et al. (1998). "Phosphorylation of the Dictyostelium myosin II heavy chain is necessary for maintaining cellular polarity and suppressing turning during chemotaxis." Cell. Motil. Cytoskel. 39: 31-51.
	
Stiefenhofer, M. (1998). "Quasi-steady-state approximation for chemical reaction networks." J. Math. Biol. 36: 593-609.
	
Sternfeld, J. (1998). "The anterior-like cells in Dictyostelium are required for the elevation of the spores during culmination." Dev. Genes Evol. 208: 487-494.
	
Stephenson, S. L., et al. (1998). "Dictyostelium mucoroides from subantarctic Macquarie Island." Mycologia 90: 368-371.
	
Stephenson, S. L. and C. J. Landolt (1998). "Dictyostelid cellular slime molds in canopy soils of tropical forest." Biotropica 30: 657-661.
	
Steinmetz, M. O., et al. (1998). "A distinct 14 residue site triggers coiled-coil formation in cortexillin I." EMBO J. 17: 1883-1891.
	
Steinbock, O. (1998). Path optimization in chemical and biological systems on the basis of excitation waves. A Perspective Look at Nonlinear Media. J. Parisi, S. C. Muller and W. Zimmermann. Berlin, Springer: 179-191.
	
Stege, J. (1998). The role of tip genes in parallel pathways of Dictyostelium cell sorting and tip formation. La Jolla, CA, Univ. California San Diego (UCSD): 120.
	
Srikrishna, G., et al. (1998). "Fucosebeta-1-P-Ser is a new type of glycosylation: using antibodies to identify a novel structure in Dictyostelium discoideum and study multiple types of fucosylation during growth and development." Glycobiology 8: 799-811.
	
Souza, G. M., et al. (1998). "YakA, a protein kinase required for the transition from growth to development in Dictyostelium." Development 125: 2291-2302.
	
Sonnemann, J., et al. (1998). "Dissection of the cAMP induced cytosolic calcium response in Dictyostelium discoideum: the role of cAMP receptor subtypes and G protein subunits." FEBS Lett. 436: 271-276.
	
Soll, D. R. and D. Wessels (1998). Motion analysis of living cells. New York, Wiley-Liss.
	
Soll, D. R. and E. Voss (1998). Two- and three-dimensional computer systems for analyzing how animal cells crawl. Motion analysis of living cells. D. R. Soll and D. Wessels. New York, Wiley-Liss: 25-52.
	
Soderbom, F. and W. F. Loomis (1998). "Cell-cell signaling during Dictyostelium development." Trends Microbiol. 6: 402-406.
	
Singleton, C. K., et al. (1998). "The histidine kinase dhkC regulates the choice between migrating slugs and terminal differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 203: 345-357.
	
Simson, R., et al. (1998). "Membrane bending modulus and adhesion energy of wild-type and mutant cells of Dictyostelium lacking talin or cortexillins." Biophys. J. 74: 514-522.
	
Silveira, L. A., et al. (1998). "MLCK-A, an unconventional myosin light chain kinase from Dictyostelium, is activated by a cGMP-dependent pathway." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 95: 13000-13005.
	
Siegert, F., et al. (1998). The morphogenesis of Dictyostelium discoideum - Pattern formation in a biological excitable system. A Perspective Look at Nonlinear Media. J. Parisi, S. C. Muller and W. Zimmermann. Berlin, Springer: 163-178.
	
Shim, K. C., et al. (1998). "Occurrence and distribution of cellular slime molds by vegetation on Mt. Seorak." Korean J. Ecol. 21: 351-355.
	
Shim, K. C., et al. (1998). "Dictyostelids on Mt. Paektu." Korean J. Ecol. 21: 557-564.
	
Shim, K. C. and N. K. Chang (1998). "Occurrence and distribution of cellular slime molds by vegetation on the island Ulneungdo." Korean J. Ecol. 21: 345-349.
	
Shim, K. C. and N. K. Chang (1998). "New dictyostelids on Mt. Seorak, Korea: Dictyostelium caudabasis." Korean J. Ecol. 21: 163-167.
	
Shim, K. C. and N. K. Chang (1998). "Dictyostelid cellular slime molds on Mt. Surak." Korean J. Ecol. 21: 157-161.
	
Shim, K. C. (1998). Distribution and occurrence of dictyostelid cellular slime molds in Korea. Seoul, korea, Seoul National University.
	
Shaulsky, G., et al. (1998). "A cAMP-phosphodiesterase controls PKA-dependent differentiation." Development 125: 691-699.
	
Shammat, I. M., et al. (1998). "Dictyostelium discoideum nuclear plasmid Ddp6 is a new member of the Ddp2 plasmid family." Curr. Genet. 33: 77-82.
	
Seastone, D. J., et al. (1998). "Overexpression of a novel Rho family GTPase, RacC, induces unusual actin-based structures and positively affects phagocytosis in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Biol. Cell 9: 2891-2904.
	
Schneider, B., et al. (1998). "3'-Phosphorylated nucleotides are tight binding inhibitors of nucleoside diphosphate kinase activity." J. Biol. Chem. 273: 28773-28778.
	
Schneider, B., et al. (1998). "Pre-steady state of reaction of nucleoside diphosphate kinase with anti-HIV nucleotides." J. Biol. Chem. 273: 11491-11497.
	
Schluter, K., et al. (1998). "Effects of single amino acid substitutions in the actin-binding site on the biological activity of bovine profilin I." J. Cell Sci. 111: 3261-3273.
	
Schaloske, R., et al. (1998). "Fatty acids induce release of Ca2+ from acidosomal stores and activate capacitative Ca2+ entry in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. J. 332: 541-548.
	
Sawada, Y., et al. (1998). "Rapid patterning of Dictyostelium discoideum cells under confined geometry and its relation to differentiation." Devel. Growth Differ. 40: 113-120.
	
Sasaki, N. and K. Sutoh (1998). "Structure-mutation analysis of the ATPase site of Dictyostelium discoideum myosin II." Adv. Biophys. 35: 1-24.
	
Sasaki, N., et al. (1998). "Mutational analysis of the switch II loop of Dictyostelium myosin II." J. Biol. Chem. 273: 20334-20340.
	
Saran, S. (1998). "Changes in endogenous polyamine levels are associated with differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Biol. Int. 22: 575-580.
	
Saito, T. and H. Ochiai (1998). "Fatty acid composition of the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium pallidum." Lipids 33: 327-332.
	
Saito, T., et al. (1998). "Structural and functional analysis of gp64, a membrane protein of the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium pallidum." Seikagaku 70: 537-542.
	
Saito, J., et al. (1998). "Dictyostelium TRFA homologous to yeast Ssn6 is required for normal growth and early development." J. Biol. Chem. 273: 24654-24659.
	
Ryves, W. J., et al. (1998). "An assay for glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK-3) for use in crude cell extracts." Anal. Biochem. 264: 124-127.
	
Rivero, F., et al. (1998). "Interaptin, an actin-binding protein of the alpha-actinin superfamily in Dictyostelium discoideum, is developmentally and cAMP-regulated and associates with intracellular membrane compartments." J. Cell Biol. 142: 735-750.
	
Riggle, P. J. and C. A. Kumamoto (1998). "Genetic analysis in fungi using restriction-enzyme-mediated integration." Curr. Opin. Microbiol. 1: 395-399.
	
Rietdorf, J., et al. (1998). "Induction of optical density waves and chemotactic cell movement in Dictyostelium discoideum by microinjection of cAMP pulses." Dev. Biol. 204: 525-536.
	
Rieben, W. K., et al. (1998). "Dictyostelium discoideum nuclear plasmid Ddp5 is a chimera related to the Ddp1 and Ddp2 plasmid families." Genetics 148: 1117-1125.
	
Reimann, S. (1998). "Oscillation and pattern formation in a system of self-regulating cells." Physica D 114: 338-361.
	
Puta, F. and C. Zeng (1998). "Blasticidin resistance cassette in symmetrical polylinkers for insertional inactivation of genes in Dictyostelium." Folia Biol. Prague 44: 185-188.
	
Pukatzki, S., et al. (1998). "A novel component involved in ubiquitination is required for development of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 273: 24131-24138.
	
Prassler, J., et al. (1998). "DdLIM is a cytoskeleton-associated protein involved in the protrusion of lamellipodia in Dictyostelium." Mol. Biol. Cell 9: 545-559.
	
Prasanna, T. B., et al. (1998). "Effects of pisatin on Dictyostelium discoideum: its relationship to inducible resistance to nystatin and extension to other isoflavonoid phytoalexins." Arch. Microbiol. 170: 309-312.
	
Ponte, E., et al. (1998). "Detection of subtle phenotypes: The case of the cell adhesion molecule csA in Dictyostelium." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 95: 9360-9365.
	
Pollock, N., et al. (1998). "In vitro microtubule-based organelle transport in wild-type Dictyostelium and cells overexpressing a truncated dynein heavy chain." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 40: 304-314.
	
Pi, M., et al. (1998). "Characterization of a novel small RNA encoded by Dictyostelium discoideum mitochondrial DNA." Mol. Gen. Genet. 257: 124-131.
	
Peracino, B., et al. (1998). "G protein beta subunit-null mutants are impaired in phagocytosis and chemotaxis due to inappropriate regulation of the actin cytoskeleton." J. Cell Biol. 141: 1529-1537.
	
Patterson, B. (1998). "Intragenic suppressors of Dictyostelium myosin G680 mutants demarcate discrete structural elements: Implications for conformational states of the motor." Genetics 149: 1799-1807.
	
Parent, C. A., et al. (1998). "G protein signaling events are activated at the leading edge of chemotactic cells." Cell 95: 81-91.
	
Papadimou, E., et al. (1998). "Inhibition of ribonuclease P activity by retinoids." J. Biol. Chem. 273: 24375-24378.
	
Pang, K. M., et al. (1998). "Use of a fusion protein between GFP and an actin-binding domain to visualize transient filamentous-actin structures." Curr. Biol. 8: 405-408.
	
Pang, K. M. (1998). Using the green fluorescence protein and an inducible expression system to study the dynamic changes of the actin cortex in Dictyostelium. Storrs, CT, The University of Connecticut: 160.
	
Otsuka, H. and P. J. M. van Haastert (1998). "A novel Myb homolog initiates Dictyostelium development by induction of adenylyl cyclase expression." Genes Devel. 12: 1738-1748.
	
Othmer, H. G. and P. Schaap (1998). "Oscillatory cAMP signaling in the development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Comments Theor. Biol. 5: 175-282.
	
Olie, R. A., et al. (1998). "Apparent caspase independence of programmed cell death in Dictyostelium." Curr. Biol. 8: 955-958.
	
Okumura, M., et al. (1998). "Definition of family of coronin-related proteins conserved between humans and mice: Close genetic linkage between coronin-2 and CD45-Associated protein." DNA Cell Biol. 17: 779-787.
	
Ohmachi, T., et al. (1998). "The characterization of two Dictyostelium discoideum genes encoding ribosomal proteins with sequence similarity to rat L27a and L37a." Biosci. Biotechnol. Biochem. 62: 2008-2015.
	
Novak, K. D. and M. A. Titus (1998). "The myosin I SH3 domain and TEDS rule phosphorylation site are required for in vivo function." Mol. Biol Cell. 9: 75-88.
	
Neujahr, R., et al. (1998). "Microtubule-mediated centrosome motility and the positioning of cleavage furrows in multinucleate myosin II-null cells." J. Cell Sci. 111: 1227-1240.
	
Neuhaus, E. M., et al. (1998). "Ethane-freezing/methanol-fixation of cell monolayers: A procedure for improved preservation of structure and antigenicity for light and electron microscopies." J. Struct. Biol. 121: 326-342.
	
Nanjundiah, V. (1998). "Cyclic AMP oscillations in Dictyostelium discoideum: models and observations." Biophys. Chem. 72: 1-8.
	
Nagasaki, A., et al. (1998). "A novel Dictyostelium discoideum gene required for cAMP-dependent cell aggregation." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 244: 505-513.
	
Murphy, C. T. and J. A. Spudich (1998). "Dictyostelium myosin 25-50K loop substitutions specifically affect ADP release rates." Biochemistry 37: 6738-6744.
	
Muller, S. C., et al. (1998). "Traveling waves in yeast extract and in cultures of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biophys. Chem. 72: 37-47.
	
Mu, X. Q., et al. (1998). "Sequence-specific protein interaction with a transcriptional enhancer involved in the autoregulated expression of cAMP receptor 1 in Dictyostelium." Development 125: 3689-3698.
	
Morio, T., et al. (1998). "The Dictyostelium developmental cDNA project: generation and analysis of expressed sequence tags from the first-finger stage of development." DNA Res. 5: 335-340.
	
Moores, S. L. and J. A. Spudich (1998). "Conditional loss-of-myosin-II-function mutants reveal a position in the tail that is critical for filament nucleation." Mol. Cell 1: 1043-1050.
	
Moores, S. L. (1998). Regulation of myosin II filament assembly and localization in Dictyostelium. Stanford, CA, Stanford University: 130.
	
Moniakis, J. (1998). Molecular cloning, regulation and function of a P-type calcium pump in Dictyostelium discoideum. Toronto, ON (Canada), York University: 139.
	
Moerman, A. M. and C. Klein (1998). "Dictyostelium discoideum Hsp32 is a resident nucleolar heat-shock protein." Chromosoma 107: 145-154.
	
Moerman, A. M., et al. (1998). "Heat shock alters poly(A) tail length of Dictyostelium discoideum hsp32 RNA." DNA Cell Biol. 17: 635-641.
	
Mesnildrey, S., et al. (1998). "Coupling between catalysis and oligomeric structure in nucleoside diphosphate kinase." J. Biol. Chem. 273: 4436-4442.
	
Mermall, V., et al. (1998). "Unconventional myosins in cell movement, membrane traffic, and signal transduction." Science 279: 527-533.
	
Matsuyama, S. I. and Y. Maeda (1998). "A mitochondrion as the structural basis of the formation of a cell-type-specific organelle in Dictyostelium development." Protoplasma 201: 172-179.
	
Marx, K. A., et al. (1998). "Comparison of experimental to MELTSIM calculated DNA melting of the (A+T) rich Dictyostelium discoideum genome: Denaturation maps distinguish exons from introns." J. Biomol. Struct. Dyn. 16: 329-339.
	
Mann, S. K. O., et al. (1998). Cell biological, molecular genetic, and biochemical methods to examine Dictyostelium. Cell Biology - A Laboratory Handbook (2nd Edition). J. E. Celis. San Diego, CA, Ac. Press: 431-465.
	
Machesky, L. M., et al. (1998). "The helC gene encodes a putative DEAD-box RNA helicase required for development in Dictyostelium discoideum." Curr. Biol. 8: 607-610.
	
Luna, E. J., et al. (1998). "Role of ponticulin in pseudopod dynamics, cell-cell adhesion, and mechanical stability of an amoeboid membrane skeleton." Biol. Bull. 194: 345-346.
	
Luna, E. J. (1998). "F-actin blot overlays." Meth. Enzymol. 298: 32-42.
	
Ludin, B. and A. Matus (1998). "GFP illuminates the cytoskeleton." Trends Cell Biol. 8: 72-77.
	
Loomis, W. F., et al. (1998). "Two-component signal transduction systems in eukaryotic microorganisms." Curr. Opin. Microbiol. 1: 643-648.
	
Loomis, W. F. (1998). The Dictyostelium genome sequencing project. Protist. 149: 209-212.
	
Loomis, W. F. (1998). "Role of PKA in the timing of developmental events in Dictyostelium cells." Microbiol. Mol. Biol. Rev. 62: 684.
	
Liu, X., et al. (1998). "Filament structure as an essential factor for regulation of Dictyostelium myosin by regulatory light chain phosphorylation." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 95: 14124-14129.
	
Lindsey, D. F., et al. (1998). "A deubiquitinating enzyme that disassembles free polyubiquitin chains is required for development but not growth in Dictyostelium." J. Biol. Chem. 273: 29178-29187.
	
Liang, W. C. and J. A. Spudich (1998). "Nucleotide-dependent conformational change near the fulcrum region in Dictyostelium myosin II." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 95: 12844-12847.
	
Levitsky, D. I., et al. (1998). "Differential scanning calorimetric study of the thermal unfolding of the motor domain fragments of Dictyostelium discoideum myosin II." Eur. J. Biochem. 251: 275-280.
	
Levine, H. (1998). "The dynamics of Dictyostelium development." Physica A 249: 53-63.
	
Leng, P., et al. (1998). "Skipper, an LTR retrotransposon of Dictyostelium." Nucl. Acids Res. 26: 2008-2015.
	
Lee, S. K., et al. (1998). "A mutation in repB, the Dictyostelium homolog of the human xeroderma pigmentosum B gene, has increased sensitivity to UV-light but normal morphogenesis." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1399: 161-172.
	
Lee, S. F., et al. (1998). "Regulation of the p21-activated kinase-related Dictyostelium myosin I heavy chain kinase by autophosphorylation, acidic phospholipids, and Ca2+-calmodulin." J. Biol. Chem. 273: 27911-27917.
	
Lee, E., et al. (1998). "Formation of F-actin aggregates in cells treated with actin stabilizing drugs." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 39: 122-133.
	
Laussmann, T., et al. (1998). "Diphospho-myo-inositol phosphates in Dictyostelium and Polysphondylium: identification of a new bisdiphospho-myo-inositol tetrakisphosphate." FEBS Lett. 426: 145-150.
	
Laurent, O., et al. (1998). "In vitro reconstituted Dictyostelium discoideum early endosome fusion is regulated by Rab7 but proceeds in the absence of ATP-Mg2+ from the bulk solution." J. Biol. Chem. 273: 793-799.
	
Laub, M. T. and W. F. Loomis (1998). "A molecular network that produces spontaneous oscillations in excitable cells of Dictyostelium." Mol. Biol. Cell 9: 3521-3532.
	
Landolt, J. C. and G. J. Wong (1998). "Dictyostelid cellular slime molds from Hawai'i." Pacific Sci. 52: 98-103.
	
Landolt, J. C. and C. W. Stihler (1998). Dictyostelid cellular slime molds from San Salvador Island, Bahamas. Proc. 7th Symp. Natural History Bahamas (ed. T.K. Wilson).
	
Landolt, J. C., et al. (1998). Dictyostelid cellualr slime molds from forest epiphyte communities. Inoculum, suppl. to Mycologia.
	
Kuwayama, H. and P. J. M. van Haastert (1998). "Chemotactic and osmotic signals share a cGMP transduction pathway in Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 424: 248-252.
	
Kuwayama, H. and P. J. M. van Haastert (1998). "cGMP potentiates receptor-stimulated Ca2+ influx in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1402: 102-108.
	
Kuhlmann, H. W. (1998). "Photomovements in ciliated protozoa." Naturwissenschaften 85: 143-154.
	
Kuhlman, P. A. and C. R. Bagshaw (1998). "ATPase kinetics of the Dictyostelium discoideum myosin II motor domain." J. Muscle Res. Cell Motil. 19: 491-504.
	
Kubohara, Y., et al. (1998). "Effects of DIF-1, an anti-tumor agent isolated from Dictyostelium discoideum, on rat gastric mucosal RGM-1 and leptomeningeal cells." Zool. Sci. 15: 713-721.
	
Kosaka, C., et al. (1998). "Negative influence of RasG on chemoattractant-induced ERK2 phosphorylation in Dictyostelium." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1402: 1-5.
	
Koonce, M. P. and D. A. Knecht (1998). "Cytoplasmic dynein heavy chain is an essential gene product in Dictyostelium." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 39: 63-72.
	
Kitayama, C., et al. (1998). Generation and phenotypic analysis of a myosin triple mutant (myosin II-/myoA-/B-). Mol. Biol. Cell.
	
Kishi, Y., et al. (1998). "High levels of actin tyrosine phosphorylation: correlation with the dormant state of Dictyostelium spores." J. Cell Sci. 111: 2923-2932.
	
Kim, J. Y., et al. (1998). "Switching of chemoattractant receptors programs development and morphogenesis in Dictyostelium: Receptor subtypes activate common responses at different agonist concentrations." Dev. Biol. 197: 117-128.
	
Kim, H. J., et al. (1998). "A novel adenylyl cyclase detected in rapidly developing mutants of Dictyostelium." J. Biol. Chem. 273: 30859-30862.
	
Kay, R. R. (1998). "The biosynthesis of differentiation-inducing factor, a chlorinated signal molecule regulating Dictyostelium development." J. Biol. Chem. 273: 2669-2675.
	
Kay, R., et al. (1998). Dictyostelium discoideum. TIG - genetic nomenclature guide. R. Wood. Cambridge, UK, Elsevier Trend Journals: 49.
	
Kawata, T. (1998). "Transcription factors and cell differentiation: roles of STAT proteins in Dictyostelium." Tanpakushitsu Kakusan Koso 43: 825-833.
	
Kasbekar, D. P., et al. (1998). "Dictyostelium caveatum mutants selected for a nystatin-resistant phenotype are cross-resistant to pisatin and other isoflavonoid phytoalexins." J. Genet. 77: 37-40.
	
Kaiser, A. M., et al. (1998). "Synthesis and action of the cyclic AMP antagonist, prostaglandylinositol cyclic phosphate (cyclic PIP), in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biol. Chem. 379: 727-730.
	
Jung, E., et al. (1998). "Rules for the addition of O-linked N-acetylglucosamine to secreted proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum - In vivo studies on glycosylation of mucin MUC1 and MUC2 repeats." Eur. J. Biochem. 253: 517-524.
	
Jin, T., et al. (1998). "Temperature-sensitive Gbeta mutants discriminate between G protein-dependent and -independent signaling mediated by serpentine receptors." EMBO J. 17: 5076-5084.
	
Jin, T., et al. (1998). "Selection of Gbeta subunits with point mutations that fail to activate specific signaling pathways in vivo: Dissecting cellular responses mediated by a heterotrimeric G protein in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Biol. Cell 9: 2949-2961.
	
Jiang, Y., et al. (1998). "Possible cooperation of differential adhesion and chemotaxis in mound formation of Dictyostelium." Biophys. J. 75: 2615-2625.
	
Jiang, Y. (1998). Cellular pattern formation. Notre Dame, IN, University of Notre Dame: 302.
	
Jenne, N., et al. (1998). "Targeted gene disruption reveals a role for vacuolin B in the late endocytic pathway and exocytosis." J. Cell Sci. 111: 61-70.
	
Jaffe, L. F. and R. Creton (1998). "On the conservation of calcium wave speeds." Cell Calcium 24: 1-8.
	
Iwamoto, M., et al. (1998). "A ribosomal protein gene cluster is encoded in the mitochondrial DNA of Dictyostelium discoideum: UGA termination codons and similarity of gene order to Acanthamoeba castellanii." Curr. Genet. 33: 304-310.
	
Itoh, M., et al. (1998). "Overexpression of CAF1 encoding a novel Ca2+-binding protein stimulates the transition of Dictyostelium cells from growth to differentiation." Devel. Growth Differ. 40: 677-683.
	
Inouye, K. (1998). Cytosolic pH and cell movement measurement in Dictyostelium. Single cell techniques in signal transduction research. B. van Duijn and A. Wiltink. Heidelberg, Springer Verlag: 375-397.
	
Inokuchi, N., et al. (1998). "Characterization and primary structure of a base non-specific and acid ribonuclease from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biochem. 124: 848-856.
	
Iijima, M., et al. (1998). "A Dictyostelium discoideum homologue to Tcp-1 is essential for growth and development." Gene 213: 101-106.
	
Iijima, M., et al. (1998). "Expression of starvation-induced genes in zygotes of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Plant Res. 111: 93-96.
	
Huang, H. J. and C. Pears (1998). "Generation of genomic mini-libraries by Tag DNA polymerase modification of genomic fragments." Biotechniques 24: 566-568.
	
Holmes, K. C. (1998). "A powerful stroke." Nature Struct. Biol. 5: 940-942.
	
Hellsten, M. and U. P. Roos (1998). "The actomyosin cytoskeleton of amoebae of the cellular slime molds Acrasis rosea and Protostelium mycophaga: structure, biochemical properties, and function." Fungal Genet. Biol. 24: 123-145.
	
Heikoop, J. C., et al. (1998). "Expression of a bioactive, single-chain choriogonadotropin in Dictyostelium discoideum." Eur. J. Biochem. 256: 359-363.
	
headlines (1998). Gene fishing: novel actin regulators netted. Trends Cell Biol. 8: 435.
	
Haynes, P. A. (1998). "Phosphoglycosylation: a new structural class of glycosylation?" Glycobiology 8: 1-5.
	
Han, Z. and R. A. Firtel (1998). "The homeobox-containing gene Wariai regulates anterior-posterior patterning and cell-type homeostasis in Dictyostelium." Development 125: 313-325.
	
Han, Y. H. and S. O. Kang (1998). "Cloning of a cDNA encoding a new calcium-binding protein from Dictyostelium discoideum and its developmental regulation." FEBS Lett. 441: 302-306.
	
Halloy, J., et al. (1998). "Modeling oscillations and waves of cAMP in Dictyostelium discoideum cells." Biophys. Chem. 72: 9-19.
	
Hagiwara, H. (1998). "Altitudinal distribution of dictyostelids on Mt. Sobo, Kyushu, Japan." Mem. Natl. Sci. Mus. Tokyo 30: 93-99.
	
Hagiwara, H. (1998). "Dictyostelids in Japan XI. Distyostelium giganteum Singh." Bull. Natl. Sci. Mus. Tokyo, Ser. B 24: 81-84.
	
Hagiwara, H. (1998). "Dictyostelids in Pakistan. III. Dictyostelium aureocephalum Hagiwara and Dictyostelium macrocephalum Hagiwara, Yeh et Chien." Bull. Natl. Sci. Mus. Tokyo, Ser. B 24: 77-80.
	
Gregg, K. Y. (1998). Pattern formation in Polysphondylium pallidum. Princeton, NJ, Princeton University: 134.
	
Graf, R., et al. (1998). "Isolation of nucleation-competent centrosomes from Dictyostelium discoideum." Eur. J. Cell Biol. 76: 167-175.
	
Gomer, R. H. (1998). "Antisense: a key tool for cell and developmental studies in Dictyostelium." Genetic Engin. 20: 135-141.
	
Golstein, P. (1998). Cell death in us and others. Science. 281: 1283.
	
Gisser, J. M. (1998). Interactions among a group of related proteins in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. Montreal, QU (Canada), Concordia University: 81.
	
Ginger, R. S., et al. (1998). "A novel Dictyostelium cell surface protein important for both sell adhesion and cell sorting." Development 125: 3343-3352.
	
Getz, E. B., et al. (1998). "Luminescence resonance energy transfer measurements in myosin." Biophys. J. 74: 2451-2458.
	
Gerald, N., et al. (1998). "A role for Dictyostelium RacE in cortical tension and cleavage furrow progression." J. Cell Biol. 141: 483-492.
	
Gamboni, S., et al. (1998). "Inhibition of the cAMP-dependent protein kinase by synthetic A-helix peptides." Biochemistry 37: 12189-12194.
	
Gale, K. E. (1998). The acid-activatable cysteine proteinases of the Dictyosteliaceae and other lower eukaryotes. Windsor, ON (Canada), University of Windsor: 126.
	
Furch, M., et al. (1998). "Modulation of actin affinity and actomyosin adenosine triphosphatase by charge changes in the myosin motor domain." Biochemistry 37: 6317-6326.
	
Fulgenzi, G., et al. (1998). "Location of the binding site of the mannose-specific lectin comitin on F-actin." J. Mol. Biol. 284: 1255-1263.
	
Fukui, Y. (1998). Microinjection into Dictyostelium amoebae. Cell Biology - A Laboratory Handbook (2nd Edition). J. E. Celis. San Diego, CA, Ac. Press: 31-36.
	
Friedman, A. L., et al. (1998). "Kinetic characterization of myosin head fragments with long-lived myosin center dot ATP states." Biochemistry 37: 9679-9687.
	
Francis, D. (1998). "High frequency recombination during the sexual cycle of Dictyostelium discoideum." Genetics 148: 1829-1832.
	
Fields, S. D., et al. (1998). "The S. cerevisiae CLU1 and D. discoideum cluA genes are functional homologues that influence mitochondrial morphology and distribution." J. Cell Sci. 111: 1717-1727.
	
Feng, X., et al. (1998). "Visualization of dynamic trafficking of a protein kinase C beta II green fluorescent protein conjugate reveals differences in G protein-coupled receptor activation and desensitization." J. Biol. Chem. 273: 10755-10762.
	
Favis, R., et al. (1998). "Transcription of the Dictyostelium glycogen phosphorylase-2 gene is induced by three large promoter domains." Dev. Genet. 23: 230-246.
	
Fasel, N. J. and C. D. Reymond (1998). Dictyostelid expression vector and method for expressing a desired protein. USA, RMF Dictagene S.A.: 11 pages/27 claims.
	The invention relates to recombinant DNA molecules comprising a Dictyostelium discoideum homologous promoter region, a heterologous DNA sequence with a Dictyostelium discoideum homologous peptide sequence capable of functioning as a leader peptide sequence positioned upstream thereof and in proper reading frame therewith, and a Dictyostelium discoideum homologous termination region, the heterologous DNA sequence encoding the desired functional polypeptide or intermediate thereof, said DNA sequence being positioned downstream from the promoter region and said termination region being positioned downstream from the DNA sequence. The invention also provides recombinant dictyostelid hosts as well as methods for preparing recombinant DNA molecules of the invention and for expressing recombinant polypeptides encoded by said recombinant DNA molecules in dictyostelid hosts. The invention in particular relates to the expression of the CS protein of Plasmodium falciparum. 

Faix, J., et al. (1998). "The IQGAP-related protein DGAP1 interacts with Rac and is involved in the modulation of the F-actin cytoskeleton and control of cell motility." J. Cell Sci. 111: 3059-3071.
	
Euteneuer, U., et al. (1998). "Dictyostelium gamma-tubulin: molecular characterization and ultrastructural localization." J. Cell Sci. 111: 405-412.
	
Escalante, R. and L. Sastre (1998). "A serum response factor homolog is required for spore differentiation in Dictyostelium." Development 125: 3801-3808.
	
Ermentrout, G. B. and L. Edelstein-Keshet (1998). "Models for the length distributions of actin filaments: II. Polymerization and fragmentation by gelsolin acting together." Bull. Math. Biol. 60: 477-503.
	
Emslie, K. R., et al. (1998). "Localisation of glycoproteins containing type 3 O-linked glycosylation to multilamellar bodies in Dictyostelium discoideum." Eur. J. Protistol. 34: 321-328.
	
Elson, E. L., et al. (1998). Forces and mechanical properties in cell locomotion. Motion analysis of living cells. D. R. Soll and D. Wessels. New York, Wiley-Liss: 67-84.
	
Eichinger, L., et al. (1998). "Characterization and cloning of a Dictyostelium Ste20-like protein kinase that phosphorylates the actin-binding protein severin." J. Biol. Chem. 273: 12952-12959.
	
Edmonds, B. T., et al. (1998). "The effect of F-actin on the binding and hydrolysis of guanine nucleotide by Dictyostelium elongation factor 1A." J. Biol. Chem. 273: 10288-10295.
	
Edelstein-Keshet, L. and G. B. Ermentrout (1998). "Models for the length distributions of actin filaments: I. Simple polymerization and fragmentation." Bull. Math. Biol. 60: 449-475.
	
Dragoi, I. A. and T. J. O'Halloran (1998). "Cloning and characterization of a Dictyostelium gene encoding a small GTPase of the rab11 family." J. Cell. Biochem. 70: 29-37.
	
Dormann, D., et al. (1998). "Propagating waves control Dictyostelium discoideum morphogenesis." Biophys. Chem. 72: 21-35.
	
Dharamsi, A. (1998). Studies on the function of calcium binding protein 1 (CBP1) during the development of Dictyostelium discoideum. Toronto, ON (Canada), York University: 127.
	
Detterbeck, A. (1998). Untersuchungen der Musterbildung in Dictyostelium discoideum mit Reportern verschiedener Halbwertzeit. Munich, Ludwig-Maximilians Univ.
	
Dean, J. P. and G. A. Dervakos (1998). "Redesigning metabolic networks using mathematical programming." Biotechnol. Bioengin. 58: 267-271.
	
de Vet, E. C. J. M. and H. van den Bosch (1998). "Nucleotide sequence of alkyl-dihydroxyacetonephosphate synthase cDNA from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 252: 629-633.
	
de Hostos, E. L., et al. (1998). "A developmentally regulated kinesin-related motor protein from Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Biol. Cell 9: 2093-2106.
	
Dammann, H., et al. (1998). "Functional analysis of the catalytic subunit of Dictyostelium PKA in vivo." Mech. Devel. 72: 149-157.
	
Dallon, J. C. and H. G. Othmer (1998). "A continuum analysis of the chemotactic signal seen by Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Theor. Biol. 194: 461-483.
	
Dai, J. (1998). The correlation of cell membrane tension with membrane trafficking and cell motility. Durham, NC, Duke University: 177.
	
Cubitt, A. B., et al. (1998). "Coexpression of a constitutively active plasma membrane calcium pump with GFP identifies roles for intracellular calcium in controlling cell sorting during morphogenesis in Dictyostelium." Dev. Biol. 196: 77-94.
	
Cornillon, S., et al. (1998). "An insertional mutagenesis approach to Dictyostelium cell death." Cell Death Differ. 5: 416-425.
	
Condeelis, J. (1998). The biochemistry of animal cell crawling. Motion analysis of living cells. D. R. Soll and D. Wessels. New York, Wiley-Liss: 85-100.
	
Col, B. (1998). Footprint analysis of the transriptional control of glycogen phosphorylase 2 in Dictyostelium discoideum. Blacksburg, VA, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University: 44.
	
Clements, C. H. (1998). The role of actin tyrosine phosphorylation in spore dormancy, and germination of Dictyostelium discoideum. Windsor, ON (Canada), University of Windsor: 102.
	
Chung, C. Y., et al. (1998). "A novel, putative MEK kinase controls developmental timing and spatial patterning in Dictyostelium and is regulated by ubiquitin-mediated protein degradation." Genes Devel. 12: 3564-3578.
	
Christensen, S. T., et al. (1998). "Signaling in unicellular eukaryotes." Int. Rev. Cytol. 177: 181-253.
	
Chiaberge, S., et al. (1998). "The phosphorylation of protein S6 modulates the interaction of the 40 S ribosomal subunit with the 5'-untranslated region of a Dictyostelium pre-spore-specific mRNA and controls its stability." J. Biol. Chem. 273: 27070-27075.
	
Chia, C. P., et al. (1998). "Cytoskeletal association of an esterase in Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Cell Res. 244: 340-348.
	
Chen, T. L., et al. (1998). "Cell-type-specific rescue of myosin function during Dictyostelium development defines two distinct cell movements required for culmination." Development 125: 3895-3903.
	
Chen, C. F. and E. R. Katz (1998). "Expression vector containing an N-terminal epitope tag for Dictyostelium discoideum." Biotechniques 25: 22-24.
	
Chang, W. T., et al. (1998). "Evidence that the RdeA protein is a component of a multistep phosphorelay modulating rate of development in Dictyostelium." EMBO J. 17: 2809-2816.
	
Chae, S. C. and Y. Maeda (1998). "Preferential expression of the cDNA encoding the proteasome subunit during the growth/differentiation transition of Dictyostelium cells." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 245: 231-234.
	
Chae, S. C. and Y. Maeda (1998). "Cloning and sequence analysis of the cDNA encoding the elongation factor-1beta of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1383: 1-3.
	
Chae, S. C., et al. (1998). "Underexpression of a novel gene, Dia2, impairs the transition of Dictyostelium cells from growth to differentiation." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 252: 278-283.
	
Burkhard, P., et al. (1998). "Crystallization and preliminary X-ray diffraction analysis of the 190-angstrom-long coiled-coil dimerization domain of the actin-bundling protein cortexillin I from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Struct. Biol. 122: 293-296.
	
Brown, R. J., et al. (1998). "Differential effects of aminosubstituted analogs of hydroxy bisphosphonates on the growth of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Bone Miner. Res. 13: 253-258.
	
Brown, J. M. and R. A. Firtel (1998). "Phosphorelay signalling: New tricks for an ancient pathway." Curr. Biol. 8: R662-R665.
	
Bretscher, M. S. and C. Aguado-Velasco (1998). "Membrane traffic during cell locomotion." Curr. Opin. Cell Biol. 10: 537-541.
	
Brazill, D. T., et al. (1998). "Cell density sensing mediated by a G protein-coupled receptor activating phospholipase C." J. Biol. Chem. 273: 8161-8168.
	
Braun, E. L., et al. (1998). "Identification of the first fungal annexin: Analysis of annexin gene duplications and implications for eukaryotic evolution." J. Mol. Evol. 47: 531-543.
	
Bottino, D. C. and L. J. Fauci (1998). "A computational model of ameboid deformation and locomotion." Eur. Biophys. J. Biophys. Lett. 27: 532-539.
	
Bonner, J. T., et al. (1998). "Oxygen and differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biosci. 23: 177-184.
	
Bonner, J. T. (1998). "The origins of multicellularity." Integrative Biol. 1: 27-36.
	
Bonner, J. T. (1998). An extract from "Memoirs for Family and Friends". Genetics. 150: 519-521.
	
Bonner, J. T. (1998). "A way of following individual cells in the migrating slugs of Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 95: 9355-9359.
	
Biondi, R. M., et al. (1998). "Role of Mg2+ in nucleoside diphosphate kinase autophosphorylation." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 353: 85-92.
	
Biondi, R. M., et al. (1998). "Random insertion of GFP into the cAMP-dependent protein kinase regulatory subunit from Dictyostelium discoideum." Nucl. Acids Res. 26: 4946-4952.
	
Beshay, U. (1998). Continuous cultivation with immobilized Dictyostelium discoideum. Bielefeld, Germany, Bielefeld Univ.
	
Bear, J. E., et al. (1998). "SCAR, a WASP-related protein, isolated as a suppressor of receptor defects in late Dictyostelium development." J. Cell Biol. 142: 1325-1335.
	
Bear IV, J. E. (1998). SCAR defines a new family of WASP-related actin cytoskeleton regulators. Atlanta, GA, Emory University: 191.
	
Barth, C., et al. (1998). "Co-insertional replication is responsible for tandem multimer formation during plasmid integration into the Dictyostelium genome." Plasmid 39: 141-153.
	
Barth, C., et al. (1998). "A rapid, small scale method for characterization of plasmid insertions in the Dictyostelium genome." Nucl. Acids Res. 26: 3317-3318.
	
Balint-Kurti, P., et al. (1998). "Non-autonomous regulation of a graded, PKA-mediated transcriptional activation signal for cell patterning." Development 125: 3947-3954.
	
Azhar, M., et al. (1998). "Calcium levels correlate with cell cycle phase and affect the level of the cyclin B transcript in Dictyostelium discoideum." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 161: 193-199.
	
Aubry, L. and R. A. Firtel (1998). "Spalten, a protein containing Galpha-protein-like and PP2C domains, is essential for cell-type differentiation in Dictyostelium." Genes Devel. 12: 1525-1538.
	
Atkinson, P. R., et al. (1998). Process for preparing obesity protein analogs. USA, Eli Lilly and Company: 37 pages/15 claims.
	The present invention is directed to an improved process for preparing in high yield an obesity protein analog using a dipeptidylaminopeptidase isolated from the slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum.

Araki, T. and Y. Maeda (1998). "Mutual relation between the cell-cycle progression and prespore differentiation in Dictyostelium development." Zool. Sci. 15: 77-84.
	
Araki, T., et al. (1998). "Developmentally and spatially regulated activation of a Dictyostelium STAT protein by a serpentine receptor." EMBO J. 17: 4018-4028.
	
Anjard, C., et al. (1998). "Signal transduction pathways leading to spore differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 193: 146-155.
	
Anjard, C., et al. (1998). "Production and activity of spore differentiation factors (SDFs) in Dictyostelium." Development 125: 4067-4075.
	
Zuppinger, C. and U. P. Roos (1997). "Cell shape, motility and distribution of F-actin in amoebae of the mycetozoans Protostelium mycophaga and Acrasis rosea. A comparison with Dictyostelium discoideum." Eur. J. Protistol. 33: 396-408.
	
Zinda, M. J. (1997). Two-component sensor kinases of Dictyostelium discoideum. Nashville, TN, Vanderbilt University: 106.
	
Zigmond, S. H., et al. (1997). "Regulation of actin polymerization in cell-free systems by GTPgammaS and Cdc42." J. Cell Biol. 138: 363-374.
	
Zhu, Q. L., et al. (1997). "The cluA(-) mutant of Dictyostelium identifies a novel class of proteins required for dispersion of mitochondria." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 94: 7308-7313.
	
Zang, J. H., et al. (1997). "On the role of myosin-II in cytokinesis: Division of Dictyostelium cells under adhesive and nonadhesive conditions." Mol. Biol. Cell 8: 2617-2629.
	
Zahavi, A. and A. Zahavi (1997). Ch. 15: Social amebas (cellular slime molds). The handicap principle - A missing piece of Darwin's puzzle. New York, Oxford, Oxford Univ. Press: 177-184.
	
Yumura, S. and T. Q. P. Uyeda (1997). "Transport of myosin II to the equatorial region without its own motor activity in mitotic Dictyostelium cells." Mol. Biol. Cell 8: 2089-2099.
	
Yumura, S. and T. Q. P. Uyeda (1997). "Myosin II can be localized to the cleavage furrow and to the posterior region of Dictyostelium amoebae without control by phosphorylation of myosin heavy and light chains." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 36: 313-322.
	
Yumura, S. (1997). "How does myosin II localize within a Dictyostelium cell?" J. Plant Res. 110: 501-510.
	
Yu, S. L. (1997). Analysis of the response to nucleotide excision repair genes to DNA damage in Dictyostelium discoideum. Columbia, MO, University of Missouri: 131.
	
Yoshida, M., et al. (1997). "Characterization and distribution of O-glycosylated carbohydrates in the cell adhesion molecule, contact site A, from Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Cell Res. 230: 393-398.
	
Yoshida, M., et al. (1997). "Characterization of a glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchor in a cell adhesion molecule, CSA, from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Carbohydr. Chem. 16: 647-653.
	
Yoshida, K., et al. (1997). "A voltage- and K+-dependent K+ channel from a membrane fraction enriched in contractile vacuole of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1325: 178-188.
	
Yang, C. Z., et al. (1997). "Synthesis of the Ca2+-dependent cell adhesion molecule DdCAD-1 is regulated by multiple factors during Dictyostelium development." Differentiation 61: 275-284.
	
Yan, J. X., et al. (1997). "The Dictyostelium discoideum proteome - The SWISS-2DPAGE database of the multicellular aggregate (slug)." Electrophoresis 18: 491-497.
	
Yan, J. X., et al. (1997). The Dictyostelium proteome project: studying the readout of the genome. Dictyostelium - A model system for cell and developmental biology. Y. Maeda, K. Inouye and I. Takeuchi. Tokyo, Japan, Universal Academy Press: 455-469.
	
Yamada, Y., et al. (1997). "Characterization of a Dictyostelium factor that acts synergistically with DIF to induce terminal stalk cell differentiation." Dev. Biol. 184: 296-302.
	
Xu, Y. W., et al. (1997). "AlF3 mimics the transition state of protein phosphorylation in the crystal structure of nucleoside diphosphate kinase and MgADP." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 94: 3579-3583.
	
Xu, Y., et al. (1997). "NMR studies on the flexibility of nucleoside diphosphate kinase." Prot. Struct. Funct. Genet. 28: 150-152.
	
Xu, X. (1997). The role that myosin II plays in altering cell shape and behavior during development in Dictyostelium discoideum. Storrs, CT, The University of Connecticut: 118.
	
Xiao, Z., et al. (1997). "Dynamic distribution of chemoattractant receptors in living cells during chemotaxis and persistent stimulation." J. Cell Biol. 139: 365-374.
	
Xiao, Z. and P. N. Devreotes (1997). "Identification of detergent-resistant plasma membrane microdomains in Dictyostelium: Enrichment of signal transduction proteins." Mol. Biol. Cell 8: 855-869.
	
Wu, Y. W., et al. (1997). "X-ray analysis of azido-thymidine diphosphate binding to nucleoside diphosphate kinase." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 94: 7162-7165.
	
Williams, J. (1997). Prestalk and stalk heterogeneity in Dictyostelium. Dictyostelium - A model system for cell and developmental biology. Y. Maeda, K. Inouye and I. Takeuchi. Tokyo, Japan, Universal Academy Press: 293-304.
	
Wilczynska, Z., et al. (1997). "Mitochondrial mutations impair signal transduction in Dictyostelium discoideum slugs." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 234: 39-43.
	
Westphal, M., et al. (1997). "Microfilament dynamics during cell movement and chemotaxis monitored using a GFP-actin fusion protein." Curr. Biol. 7: 176-183.
	
West, C. M., et al. (1997). "The cytosolic glycoprotein FP21 of Dictyostelium discoideum is encoded by two genes resulting in a polymorphism at a single amino acid position." Gene 200: 1-10.
	
Wen, X. (1997). Cloning and characterization of replication protein A from Dictyostelium discoideum. Blacksburg, VA, Virginia Tech.
	
Weber, I. and R. Albrecht (1997). "Image processing for combined bright-field and reflection interference contrast video microscopy." Comput. Meth. Progr. Biomed. 53: 113-118.
	
Wang, N. S. (1997). dhkA, a two-component system histidine kinase gene that functions in Dictyostelium development. La Jolla, University of California, San Diego (UCSD): 96.
	
Wang, B. and A. Kuspa (1997). "Dictyostelium development in the absence of cAMP." Science 277: 251-254.
	
Wallraff, E. and H. G. Wallraff (1997). "Migration and bidirectional phototaxis in Dictyostelium discoideum slugs lacking the actin cross-linking 120 kDa gelation factor." J. Exp. Biol. 200: 3213-3220.
	
Vithalani, K. K. (1997). Genetic analysis of cytokinesis using Dictyostelium discoideum. Durham, NC, Duke University: 269.
	
Vicker, M. G., et al. (1997). "Pseudopodium extension and amoeboid locomotion in Dictyostelium discoideum - possible autowave behavior of F-actin." Physica D 101: 317-332.
	
Vicker, M. G. and X. Wei (1997). I.3 Self-organized F-actin autowaves govern pseudopodium projection and the non-random locomotion of Dictyostelium amoebae. Dynamics of Cell and Tissue Motion. W. Alt, A. Deutsch and G. Dunn. Basel, Switzerland, Birkhauser Verlag: 21-28.
	
Vicker, M. G. (1997). II.3 Chemotaxis and chemokinesis of Dictyostelium amoebae: different accumulation mechanisms induced by temporal signals and spatial gradients of cyclic AMP. Dynamics of Cell and Tissue Motion. W. Alt, A. Deutsch and G. Dunn. Basel, Switzerland, Birkhauser Verlag: 133-139.
	
Verkerke-van Wijk, I. and P. Schaap (1997). cAMP, a signal for survival. Dictyostelium - A model system for cell and developmental biology. Y. Maeda, K. Inouye and I. Takeuchi. Tokyo, Japan, Universal Academy Press: 145-162.
	
Vasiev, B., et al. (1997). "A hydrodynamic model for Dictyostelium discoideum mound formation." J. Theor. Biol. 184: 441.
	
Vasiev, B., et al. (1997). "Multi-armed spirals in excitable media." Phys. Rev. Lett. 78: 2489-2492.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M. and P. van Dijken (1997). "Biochemistry and genetics of inositol phosphate metabolism in Dictyostelium." FEBS Lett. 410: 39-43.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M. and H. Kuwayama (1997). "cGMP as second messenger during Dictyostelium chemotaxis." FEBS Lett. 410: 25-28.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M. (1997). Transduction of the chemotactic cAMP signal across the plasma membrane. Dictyostelium - A model system for cell and developmental biology. Y. Maeda, K. Inouye and I. Takeuchi. Tokyo, Japan, Universal Academy Press: 173-191.
	
van Es, S., et al. (1997). "Two ras genes in Dictyostelium minutum show high sequence homology, but different developmental regulation from Dictyostelium discoideum rasD and rasG genes." Gene 187: 93-97.
	
van Dijken, P., et al. (1997). "Phospholipase-C-independent inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate formation in Dictyostelium cells - Activation of a plasmamembrane-bound phosphatase by receptor-stimulated Ca2+ influx." Eur. J. Biochem. 244: 113-119.
	
Uyeda, T. Q. and M. A. Titus (1997). The myosins of Dictyostelium. Dictyostelium - A model system for cell and developmental biology. Y. Maeda, K. Inouye and I. Takeuchi. Tokyo, Japan, Universal Academy Press: 43-64.
	
Urushihara, H. (1997). Cell recognition in the sexual development of Dictyostelium discoideum. Dictyostelium - A model system for cell and developmental biology. Y. Maeda, K. Inouye and I. Takeuchi. Tokyo, Japan, Universal Academy Press: 137-142.
	
Ueda, M., et al. (1997). "Centrosome positioning and directionality of cell movements." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 94: 9674-9678.
	
Uchiyama, S., et al. (1997). "Lumazine-like fluorescence in a mass of spores of the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Plant Res. 110: 383-386.
	
Tuxworth, R. I., et al. (1997). "Dictyostelium RasG is required for normal motility and cytokinesis, but not growth." J. Cell Biol. 138: 605-614.
	
Titus, M. A. (1997). An unconventional myosin required for phagocytosis. Mol. Biol. Cell.
	
Temesvari, L. A. and D. A. Cotter (1997). "Trehalase of Dictyostelium discoideum: Inhibition by amino-containing analogs of trehalose and affinity purification." Biochimie 79: 229-239.
	
Tao, Y. P., et al. (1997). "Nitric oxide, an endogenous regulator of Dictyostelium discoideum differentiation." Development 124: 3587-3595.
	
Takahashi, A., et al. (1997). "Mutation frequency of Dictyostelium discoideum spores exposed to the space environment." Biol. Sci. Space 11: 81-86.
	
Suzuki, Y., et al. (1997). "Modulation of actin filament sliding by mutations of the SH2 cysteine in Dictyostelium myosin II." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 234: 701-706.
	
Sucgang, R., et al. (1997). "Null mutations of the Dictyostelium cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase gene block chemotactic cell movement in developing aggregates." Dev. Biol. 192: 181-192.
	
Stephenson, S. L., et al. (1997). "Dictyostelid cellular slime molds from western Alaska and the Russian Far East." Arctic Alpine Res. 29: 222-225.
	
Stege, J. T., et al. (1997). "Sorting of the initial cell types in Dictyostelium is dependent on the tipA gene." Dev. Biol. 185: 34-41.
	
Steck, T. L., et al. (1997). "Osmotic homeostasis in Dictyostelium discoideum: Excretion of amino acids and ingested solutes." J. Euk. Microbiol. 44: 503-510.
	
Srikrishna, G., et al. (1997). "An IgG monoclonal antibody against Dictyostelium discoideum glycoproteins specifically recognizes Fucalpha1,6GlcNAcbeta in the core of N-linked glycans - Localized expression of core-fucosylated glycoconjugates in human tissues." J. Biol. Chem. 272: 25743-25752.
	
Spann, T. P., et al. (1997). Shotgun antisense mutagenesis. Antisense Technoloy a practical approach. C. Lichtenstein and W. Nellen. New York, Oxford Univ. Press: 273-279.
	
Souza, G. M., et al. (1997). "Dictyostelium lysosomal proteins with different sugar modifications sort to functionally distinct compartments." J. Cell Sci. 110: 2239-2248.
	
Sonnemann, J., et al. (1997). "cAMP-induced changes in the cytosolic free Ca2+ concentration in Dictyostelium discoideum are light sensitive." Cell Calcium 22: 65-74.
	
Smith, D. W. and W. F. Loomis (1997). DictyDB - A genomic database for Dictyostelium discoideum. Dictyostelium - A model system for cell and developmental biology. Y. Maeda, K. Inouye and I. Takeuchi. Tokyo, Japan, Universal Academy Press: 471-477.
	
Slade, M. B., et al. (1997). "Expression of recombinant glycoproteins in the simple eukaryote Dictyostelium discoideum." Biotechnol. Genetic Engin. Rev. 14: 1-35.
	
Siu, C. H., et al. (1997). Cell adhesion molecules in Dictyostelium. Dictyostelium - A model system for cell and developmental biology. Y. Maeda, K. Inouye and I. Takeuchi. Tokyo, Japan, Universal Academy Press: 111-121.
	
Siegert, F. and C. J. Weijer (1997). Wellen als Architekten. Einsichten. 1997/1: 6-9.
	
Siegert, F. and C. Weijer (1997). Control of cell movement during multicellular morphogenesis. Dictyostelium - A model system for cell and developmental biology. Y. Maeda, K. Inouye and I. Takeuchi. Tokyo, Japan, Universal Academy Press: 425-436.
	
Shtevi, A. (1997). Analysis of cis-acting elements of the rnrB gene of Dictyostelium discoideum. Montreal, QU (Canada), Concordia University: 65.
	
Shimizu, H., et al. (1997). "A mutation in the cAMP signaling pathway affects sexual development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Devel. Growth Differ. 39: 227-234.
	
Shimada, T., et al. (1997). "Alanine scanning mutagenesis of the switch I region in the ATPase site of Dictyostelium discoideum myosin II." Biochemistry 36: 14037-14043.
	
Shih, K. H. W. (1997). Purification and characterization of cysteine proteinase in the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum AX3. Lowell, MA, University of Lowell: 135.
	
Shenderov, A. D. and M. P. Sheetz (1997). "Inversely correlated cycles in speed and turning in an ameba: an oscillatory model of cell locomotion." Biophys. J. 72: 2382-2389.
	
Shammat, I. M. (1997). Studies of Dictyostelium discoideum plasmid Ddp6 and on the mechanism of action of Rep proteins from the Ddp2 plasmid family. Logan, UT, Utah State University: 102.
	
Shah-Mahoney, N., et al. (1997). "Blocking the ends of transforming DNA enhances gene targeting in Dictyostelium." Gene 203: 33-41.
	
Sesaki, H., et al. (1997). "The cell adhesion molecule DdCAD-1 in Dictyostelium is targeted to the cell surface by a nonclassical transport pathway involving contractile vacuoles." J. Cell Biol. 138: 939-951.
	
Schlichting, I. and J. Reinstein (1997). "Structures of active conformations of UMP kinase from Dictyostelium discoideum suggest phosphoryl transfer is associative." Biochemistry 36: 9290-9296.
	
Schaloske, R. and D. Malchow (1997). "Mechanism of cAMP-induced Ca2+ influx in Dictyostelium: role of phospholipase A2." Biochem. J. 327: 233-238.
	
Savill, N. J. and P. Hogeweg (1997). "Modelling morphogenesis: From single cells to crawling slugs." J. Theor. Biol. 184: 229-235.
	
Savill, N. and P. Hogeweg (1997). III.4 A cellular automata approach to the modelling of cell-cell interactions. Dynamics of Cell and Tissue Motion. W. Alt, A. Deutsch and G. Dunn. Basel, Switzerland, Birkhauser Verlag: 203-210.
	
Sarkar, S. and T. L. Steck (1997). "An NADH-dependent disulfide reductase activity in the endoplasmic reticulum of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 234: 313-315.
	
Sabry, J. H., et al. (1997). "Myosin heavy chain phosphorylation sites regulate myosin localization during cytokinesis in live cells." Mol. Biol. Cell 8: 2605-2615.
	
Rutherford, C. L., et al. (1997). "Temporal regulation of the Dictyostelium glycogen phosphorylase 2 gene." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1351: 111-125.
	
Rutherford, C. L., et al. (1997). Regulation of glycogen phosphorylase and synthase genes during cell differentiation of Dictyostelium. Dictyostelium - A model system for cell and developmental biology. Y. Maeda, K. Inouye and I. Takeuchi. Tokyo, Japan, Universal Academy Press: 363-377.
	
Rogers, M. J., et al. (1997). "Inhibition of growth of Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae by bisphosphonate drugs is dependent on cellular uptake." Pharmaceut. Res. 14: 625-630.
	
Rogers, K. C., et al. (1997). The cAMP receptor gene family of Dictyostelium discoideum: expression, regulation, function. Dictyostelium - A model system for cell and developmental biology. Y. Maeda, K. Inouye and I. Takeuchi. Tokyo, Japan, Universal Academy Press: 163-172.
	
Robinson, V. and J. Williams (1997). "A marker of terminal stalk cell terminal differentiation in Dictyostelium." Differentiation 61: 223-228.
	
Rietdorf, J., et al. (1997). "Analysis of cell movement and signalling during ring formation in an activated Galpha1 mutant of Dictyostelium discoideum that is defective in prestalk zone formation." Dev. Biol. 181: 79-90.
	
Riddelle-Spencer, K. S. and T. J. O'Halloran (1997). "Purification of clathrin heavy and light chain from Dictyostelium discoideum." Prot. Expr. Purif. 11: 250-256.
	
Rezabek, B. L., et al. (1997). "Phagosomal proteins of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Euk. Microbiol. 44: 284-292.
	
Reddy, T. B. K. and S. Chatterjee (1997). "Cisplatin inhibits pinocytosis in Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Biol. Int. 21: 237-241.
	
Reddy, K. M., et al. (1997). "Synthesis of 2- and 5-diphospho-myo-inositol pentakisphosphate (2- and 5-PP-InsP5), intracellular mediators." Tetrahedron Lett. 38(28): 4951-4952.
	The title pyrophosphates were prepared in good overall yield from a readily available bis-disiloxanylidene derivative of myo-inositol.

Rebstein, P. J., et al. (1997). "Mutational analysis of the role of Rap1 in regulating cytoskeletal function in Dictyostelium." Exp. Cell Res. 231: 276-283.
	
Rauchenberger, R., et al. (1997). "Coronin and vacuolin identify consecutive stages of a late, actin-coated endocytic compartment in Dictyostelium." Curr. Biol. 7: 215-218.
	
Ramalingam, R. and H. L. Ennis (1997). "Characterization of the Dictyostelium discoideum cellulose-binding protein CelB and regulation of gene expression." J. Biol. Chem. 272: 26166-26172.
	
Prassler, J., et al. (1997). "Interaction of a Dictyostelium member of the plastin/fimbrin family with actin filaments and actin-myosin complexes." Mol. Biol. Cell 8: 83-95.
	
Poppenborg, L., et al. (1997). "The green fluorescent protein is a versatile reporter for bioprocess monitoring." J. Biotechnol. 58: 79-88.
	
Polesky, A. J. M. (1997). The calcium(2+)/CaM-dependent phosphoprotein phosphatase calcineurin: its role in chemotaxis of axenic cells and analysis of possible substrates in Dictyostelium discoideum. Toronto, ON (Canada), University of Toronto: 126.
	
Phillips, P., et al. (1997). "A protein kinase C-like activity involved in the chemotactic response of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1349: 72-80.
	
Pellizzari, R., et al. (1997). "Subunits I and II of Dictyostelium cytochrome c oxidase are specified by a single open reading frame transcribed into a large polycistronic RNA." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1320: 1-7.
	
Patterson, B., et al. (1997). "Cold-sensitive mutants G680V and G691C of Dictyostelium myosin II confer dramatically different biochemical defects." J. Biol. Chem. 272: 27612-27617.
	
Pang, K. M. and D. A. Knecht (1997). "Partial inverse PCR: a technique for cloning flanking sequences." Biotechniques 22: 1046-1048.
	
Palsson, E., et al. (1997). "Selection for spiral waves in the social amoebae Dictyostelium." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 94: 13719-13723.
	
Palsson, E. and E. C. Cox (1997). On the origin of spiral waves in aggregating Dictyostelium. Dictyostelium - A model system for cell and developmental biology. Y. Maeda, K. Inouye and I. Takeuchi. Tokyo, Japan, Universal Academy Press: 411-423.
	
Oyama, M. and K. Kubota (1997). "H+ secretion induced by hypertonic stress in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biochem. 122: 64-70.
	
Osherov, N., et al. (1997). "Precocious sporulation and developmental lethality in yelA null mutants of Dictyostelium." Dev. Genet. 20: 307-319.
	
Ord, T., et al. (1997). "The cysteine proteinase gene cprG in Dictyostelium discoideum has a serine-rich domain that contains GlcNAc-1-P." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 339: 64-72.
	
Oohata, A. A., et al. (1997). "A novel prespore-cell-inducing factor in Dictyostelium discoideum induces cell division of prespore cells." Development 124: 2781-2787.
	
Okafuji, T., et al. (1997). "Antisense-mediated regulation of Annexin VII gene expression during the transition from growth to differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Gene 189: 49-56.
	
Ohnishi, T., et al. (1997). "Cell growth and morphology of Dictyostelium discoideum in space environment." Biol. Sci. Space 11: 29-34.
	
Ogawa, S., et al. (1997). "A site-specific DNA endonuclease specified by one of two ORFs encoded by a group I intron in Dictyostelium discoideum mitochondrial DNA." Gene 191: 115-121.
	
Ogawa, S., et al. (1997). "Group-I introns in the cytochrome c oxidase genes of Dictyostelium discoideum: Two related ORFs in one loop of a group-I intron, a cox1/2 hybrid gene and an unusually large cox3 gene." Curr. Genet. 31: 80-88.
	
Ochiai, H., et al. (1997). Cell-cell adhesion protein gp64 of Polysphondylium pallidum. Dictyostelium - A model system for cell and developmental biology. Y. Maeda, K. Inouye and I. Takeuchi. Tokyo, Japan, Universal Academy Press: 123-136.
	
Oberosler, P. and W. Nellen (1997). "Functional activity and developmental regulation of DdRBP1, a RNA binding protein in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biol. Chem. 378: 1353-1360.
	
Nunez, A. and M. Fernandez-Renart (1997). "Proteolysis activated protein kinase in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cell. Biochem. 175: 177-185.
	
Novak, K. D. and M. A. Titus (1997). "Myosin I overexpression impairs cell migration." J. Cell Biol. 136: 633-647.
	
Novak, K. D. (1997). The role of amoeboid class I myosins in actin-based cell motility. Durham, NC, Duke University: 217.
	
Noegel, A. A., et al. (1997). Actin binding proteins: role and regulation. Dictyostelium - A model system for cell and developmental biology. Y. Maeda, K. Inouye and I. Takeuchi. Tokyo, Japan, Universal Academy Press: 33-42.
	
Niswonger, M. L. and T. J. O'Halloran (1997). "A novel role for clathrin in cytokinesis." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 94: 8575-8578.
	
Niswonger, M. L. and T. J. O'Halloran (1997). "Clathrin heavy chain is required for spore cell but not stalk cell differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Development 124: 443-451.
	
Niswonger, M. L. (1997). The intracellular roles of clathrin in Dictyostelium discoideum. Durham, NC, Duke University: 157.
	
Niewohner, J., et al. (1997). "Talin-null cells of Dictyostelium are strongly defective in adhesion to particle and substrate surfaces and slightly impaired in cytokinesis." J. Cell Biol. 138: 349-361.
	
Neujahr, R., et al. (1997). "Myosin II-independent processes in mitotic cells of Dictyostelium discoideum: Redistribution of the nuclei, re-arrangement of the actin system and formation of the cleavage furrow." J. Cell Sci. 110: 123-137.
	
Neujahr, R., et al. (1997). "Three-dimensional patterns and redistribution of myosin II and actin in mitotic Dictyostelium cells." J. Cell Biol. 139: 1793-1804.
	
Nellen, W. and C. Lichtenstein (1997). Evaluation of antisense effects. Antisense Technoloy a practical approach. C. Lichtenstein and W. Nellen. New York, Oxford Univ. Press: 25-38.
	
Nebl, T. and P. R. Fisher (1997). "Intracellular Ca2+ signals in Dictyostelium chemotaxis are mediated exclusively by Ca2+ influx." J. Cell Sci. 110: 2845-2853.
	
Nanjundiah, V. (1997). Models for pattern formation in the dictyostelid slime molds. Dictyostelium - A model system for cell and developmental biology. Y. Maeda, K. Inouye and I. Takeuchi. Tokyo, Japan, Universal Academy Press: 305-322.
	
Murray, J. W. (1997). The effect of elongation factor 1alpha on actin polymer dynamics. New York, NY, Yeshiva University: 155.
	
Morrison, A., et al. (1997). "A novel, negative selectable marker for gene disruption in Dictyostelium." Gene 202: 171-176.
	
Morgan, R. O. and M. P. Fermandez (1997). "Distinct annexin subfamilies in plants and protists diverged prior to animal annexins and from a common ancestor." J. Mol. Evol. 44: 178-188.
	
Monnat, J., et al. (1997). "Dictyostelium discoideum protein disulfide isomerase, an endoplasmic reticulum resident enzyme lacking a KDEL-type retrieval signal." FEBS Lett. 418: 357-362.
	
Moerman, A. M. and C. Klein (1997). "Developmental regulation of hsp32, a small heat shock protein in Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Cell Res. 237: 149-157.
	
Moerman, A. M. (1997). Characterization of Hsp32, a novel nucleolar heat shock protein in Dictyostelium discoideum. St. Louis, MO, Saint Louis University: 104.
	
Milne, J. L. S., et al. (1997). "Random mutagenesis of the cAMP chemoattractant receptor, cAR1, of Dictyostelium - Evidence for multiple states of activation." J. Biol. Chem. 272: 2069-2076.
	
Mesnildrey, S., et al. (1997). "The in vitro DNA binding properties of NDP kinase are related to its oligomeric state." FEBS Lett. 418: 53-57.
	
Mehta, D. P., et al. (1997). "UDP-GlcNAc:Ser-protein N-acetylglucosamine-1-phosphotransferase from Dictyostelium discoideum recognizes serine-containing peptides and eukaryotic cysteine proteinases." J. Biol. Chem. 272: 28638-28645.
	
Matto-Yelin, M., et al. (1997). "14-3-3 inhibits the Dictyostelium myosin II heavy-chain-specific protein kinase C activity by a direct interaction: Identification of the 14-3-3 binding domain." Mol. Biol. Cell 8: 1889-1899.
	
Matapurkar, A. K. and M. G. Watve (1997). "Altruist cheater dynamics in Dictyostelium: aggregated distribution gives stable oscillations." Am Nat 150(6): 790-797.
	
Martinez-Perez, A. (1997). Isolation and partial characterization of cDNAs encoding polypeptides that interact with the capB gene products of Dictyostelium discoideum. Montreal, QU (Canada), Concordia University: 70.
	
Mann, S. K. O., et al. (1997). "Role of cAMP-dependent protein kinase in controlling aggregation and postaggregative development in Dictyostelium." Dev. Biol. 183: 208-221.
	
Mangiarotti, G., et al. (1997). "rRNA maturation as a ''quality'' control step in ribosomal subunit assembly in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 272: 27818-27822.
	
Mangiarotti, G. and S. Chiaberge (1997). "Reconstitution of functional eukaryotic ribosomes from Dictyostelium discoideum ribosomal proteins and RNA." J. Biol. Chem. 272: 19682-19687.
	
Maeda, Y., et al. (1997). Dictyostelium - a model system for cell and developmental biology. Tokyo, Universal Academy Press.
	
Maeda, Y. (1997). Cellular and molecular mechanisms of the transition from growth to differentiation in Dictyostelium cells. Dictyostelium - A model system for cell and developmental biology. Y. Maeda, K. Inouye and I. Takeuchi. Tokyo, Japan, Universal Academy Press: 207-218.
	
Maeda, M. and I. Takeuchi (1997). "Dictyostelium." Tanpakushitsu Kakusan Koso 42: 2914-2919.
	
Maeda, M. and R. A. Firtel (1997). "Activation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase ERK2 by the chemoattractant folic acid in Dictyostelium." J. Biol. Chem. 272: 23690-23695.
	
Maeda, M. (1997). Aggregation-related protein kinases in Dictyostelium, MAP-kinase ERK2 and cAMP-dependent protein kinase PKA. Dictyostelium - A model system for cell and developmental biology. Y. Maeda, K. Inouye and I. Takeuchi. Tokyo, Japan, Universal Academy Press: 193-203.
	
MacKellar, W. C. (1997). Process for preparing anti-obesity protein. USA, Eli Lilly and Company: 18 pages/10 claims.
	The present invention is directed to a novel process of preparing an anti-obesity protein using dipeptidyl-aminopeptidase isolated from the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discodeum. The process produces an anti-obesity protein in high yield. 

Ma, H., et al. (1997). "The Dictyostelium MAP kinase kinase DdMEK1 regulates chemotaxis and is essential for chemoattractant-mediated activation of guanylyl cyclase." EMBO J. 16: 4317-4332.
	
Ludbrook, S. B., et al. (1997). "Cloning and characterization of a rhoGAP homolog from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 272: 15682-15686.
	
Louis, S. A., et al. (1997). "Rap1 overexpression reveals that activated RasD induces separable defects during Dictyostelium development." Dev. Biol. 190: 273-283.
	
Louis, S. A., et al. (1997). "Expression of an activated rasD gene changes cell fate decisions during Dictyostelium development." Mol. Biol. Cell 8: 303-312.
	
Loomis, W. F., et al. (1997). Commentary - Histidine kinases in signal transduction pathways of eukaryotes. J. Cell Sci. 110: 1141-1145.
	
Loomis, W. F. and A. Kuspa (1997). The genome of Dictyostelium discoideum. Dictyostelium - A model system for cell and developmental biology. Y. Maeda, K. Inouye and I. Takeuchi. Tokyo, Japan, Universal Academy Press: 15-30.
	
Ling, A. Z. (1997). The upstream sequence of apurinic/apyrimidinic endonuclease of Dictyostelium discoideum and its use in the establishment of a conditional gene expression system. University Park, PA, The Pennsylvania State University (Penn State): 91.
	
Lim, R. W. L. and M. Fechheimer (1997). "Overexpression, purification, and characterization of recombinant Dictyostelium discoideum calcium-regulated 34,000-Dalton F-actin bundling protein from Escherichia coli." Prot. Expr. Purif. 9: 182-190.
	
Lim, R. W. L. (1997). Structure and function studies of the Dictyostelium discoideum Ca(2+)-regulated 34,000 dalton F-actin bundling protein. Athens, GA, University of Georgia: 179.
	
Liemann, S., et al. (1997). "Crystal structure of the C-terminal tetrad repeat from synexin (annexin VII) of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Mol. Biol. 270: 79-88.
	
Lewis, K. E. and J. C. Jamieson (1997). "Biochemical characterization of the phagocytic giant cell receptor for Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae: Identification by cell blotting." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 230: 505-508.
	
Levine, H., et al. (1997). "Computational modeling of mound development in Dictyostelium." Physica D 106: 375-388.
	
Lee, S. K., et al. (1997). "Differential developmental expression of the repB and repD Xeroderma pigmentosum related DNA helicase genes from Dictyostelium discoideum." Nucl. Acids Res. 25: 2365-2374.
	
Lee, S. K., et al. (1997). "The Dictyostelium discoideum beta-1,4-mannosyltransferase gene, mntA, has two periods of developmental expression." Gene 204: 251-258.
	
Lee, S. K. (1997). Molecular genetic analysis of nucleotide excision repair genes in Dictyostelium discoideum. Columbia, MO, University of Missouri: 146.
	
Lee, S. F. (1997). Characterization of a Dictyostelium myosin I heavy-chain kinase. Kingston, ON (Canada), Queen's University at Kingston: 148.
	
Lee, S., et al. (1997). "A Ras GAP is essential for cytokinesis and spatial patterning in Dictyostelium." Development 124: 983-996.
	
Lee, E., et al. (1997). "Changes in actin filament organization during pseudopod formation." Exp. Cell Res. 235: 295-299.
	
Lauzeral, J., et al. (1997). "Desynchronization of cells on the developmental path triggers the formation of spiral waves of cAMP during Dictyostelium aggregation." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 94: 9153-9158.
	
Laussmann, T., et al. (1997). "Diphospho-myo-inositol phosphates from Dictyostelium identified as D-6-diphospho-myo-inositol pentakisphosphate and D-5,6-bisdiphospho-myo-inositol tetrakisphosphate." Biochem. J. 322: 31-33.
	
Larochelle, D. A., et al. (1997). "Role of Dictyostelium racE in cytokinesis: Mutational analysis and localization studies by use of green fluorescent protein." Mol. Biol. Cell 8: 935-944.
	
Labrousse, A. and M. Satre (1997). "A new collection of thermosensitive endocytosis mutants in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Euk. Microbiol. 44: 620-625.
	
Kurzawa, S. E., et al. (1997). "Dictyostelium discoideum myosin II: Characterization of functional myosin motor fragments." Biochemistry 36: 317-323.
	
Kubohara, Y. and M. Maeda (1997). "Efficient induction by DIF-1 and 8-bromo cyclic AMP of prespore-to-stalk conversion in Dictyostelium discoideum." Compar. Biochem. Physiol. 118A: 841-845.
	
Kubohara, Y. (1997). "Anti-tumor effects of stalk-differentiation-inducing factor (DIF-1) of Dictyostelium discoideum." Seikagaku 69: 1191-1195.
	
Kubohara, Y. (1997). "DIF-1, putative morphogen of D. discoideum, suppresses cell growth and promotes retinoic acid-induced cell differentiation in HL-60." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 236: 418-422.
	
Kosaka, C. and C. J. Pears (1997). "Chemoattractants induce tyrosine phosphorylation of ERK2 in Dictyostelium discoideum by diverse signalling pathways." Biochem. J. 324: 347-352.
	
Koonce, M. P. (1997). "Identification of a microtubule-binding domain in a cytoplasmic dynein heavy chain." J. Biol. Chem. 272: 19714-19718.
	
Koonce, M. P. (1997). "Chromosome walking in Dictyostelium: An application of the single specific primer PCR." J. Microbiol. Meth. 28: 131-138.
	
Komori, K., et al. (1997). "Localization of a DNA topoisomerase-II to mitochondria in Dictyostelium discoideum - deletion mutant analysis and mitochondrial targeting signal presequence." J. Plant Res. 110: 65-75.
	
Komori, K., et al. (1997). "Cloning and characterization of the gene encoding a mitochondrially localized DNA topoisomerase II in Dictyostelium discoideum - Western blot analysis." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1352: 63-72.
	
Kolman, M. F. and T. T. Egelhoff (1997). "Dictyostelium myosin heavy chain kinase A subdomains - Coiled-coil and WD repeat roles in oligomerization and substrate targeting." J. Biol. Chem. 272: 16904-16910.
	
Kolman, M. F. (1997). Molecular and cellular studies on Dictyostelium myosin heavy-chain kinase A. Cleveland, OH, Case Western Reserve University: 166.
	
Knetsch, M. L. W., et al. (1997). "Isolation of a Dictyostelium discoideum 14-3-3 homologue." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1357: 243-248.
	
Kim, J. Y., et al. (1997). "Phosphorylation of chemoattractant receptors is not essential for chemotaxis or termination of G-protein-mediated responses." J. Biol. Chem. 272: 27313-27318.
	
Kim, J. Y., et al. (1997). "Random mutagenesis of the cAMP chemoattractant receptor, cAR1, of Dictyostelium - Mutant classes that cause discrete shifts in agonist affinity and lock the receptor in a novel activational intermediate." J. Biol. Chem. 272: 2060-2068.
	
Kessin, R. H. (1997). The evolution of the cellular slime molds. Dictyostelium - A model system for cell and developmental biology. Y. Maeda, K. Inouye and I. Takeuchi. Tokyo, Japan, Universal Academy Press: 3-13.
	
Keenan, C., et al. (1997). "Protein kinase C in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Soc. Trans. 25: S592.
	
Kay, R. R. (1997). DIF signalling. Dictyostelium - A model system for cell and developmental biology. Y. Maeda, K. Inouye and I. Takeuchi. Tokyo, Japan, Universal Academy Press: 279-292.
	
Kay, R. R. (1997). "Dictyostelium development: Lower STATs." Curr. Biol. 7: R723-R725.
	
Kawata, T., et al. (1997). "SH2 signaling in a lower eukaryote: A STAT protein that regulates stalk cell differentiation in Dictyostelium." Cell 89: 909-916.
	
Jung, E. and K. L. Williams (1997). "The production of recombinant glycoproteins with special reference to simple eukaryotes including Dictyostelium discoideum." Biotechnol. Appl. Biochem. 25: 3-8.
	
Jung, E., et al. (1997). "An in vivo approach for the identification of acceptor sites for O-glycosyltransferases: Motifs for the addition of O-GlcNAc in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochemistry 36: 4034-4040.
	
Jain, R., et al. (1997). Autocrine factors controlling early development. Dictyostelium - A model system for cell and developmental biology. Y. Maeda, K. Inouye and I. Takeuchi. Tokyo, Japan, Universal Academy Press: 219-234.
	
Jaffe, L. F. (1997). The roles of calcium in pattern formation. Dictyostelium - A model system for cell and developmental biology. Y. Maeda, K. Inouye and I. Takeuchi. Tokyo, Japan, Universal Academy Press: 267-277.
	
Huang, H. J., et al. (1997). "Cells at the center of Dictyostelium aggregates become spores." Dev. Biol. 192: 564-571.
	
Hofer, T. and P. K. Maini (1997). "Streaming instability of slime-mold amebas - an analytical model." Phys. Rev. 56: 2074-2080.
	
Ho, G. Y. and R. L. Chisholm (1997). "Substitution mutations in the myosin essential light chain lead to reduced actin-activated ATPase activity despite stoichiometric binding to the heavy chain." J. Biol. Chem. 272: 4522-4527.
	
Hildebrandt, M. (1997). Antisense applications in Dictyostelium: a lower eukaryotic model system. Antisense Technoloy a practical approach. C. Lichtenstein and W. Nellen. New York, Oxford Univ. Press: 173-190.
	
Hess, B. (1997). "Periodic patterns in biochemical reactions." Quart. Rev. Biophys. 30: 121-176.
	
Hellstern, S., et al. (1997). "Overexpression, purification and characterization of Dictyostelium calcineurin A." Res. Microbiol. 148: 335-343.
	
Hedgepeth, C. M., et al. (1997). "Activation of the Wnt signalling pathway: a molecular mechanism for lithium action." Dev. Biol. 185: 82-91.
	
Han, Z. (1997). Cloning and analysis of the homeobox-containing gene Wariai and Wariai-interacting proteins in Dictyostelium. La Jolla, CA, University of California, San Diego (UCSD): 161.
	
Hacker, U., et al. (1997). "Fluid-phase uptake by macropinocytosis in Dictyostelium." J. Cell Sci. 110: 105-112.
	
Gura, T. (1997). One molecule orchestrates amoebae. Science. 277: 182.
	
Gundersen, R. E. (1997). "Phosphorylation of the G protein alpha-subunit, Galpha2, of Dictyostelium discoideum requires a functional and activated Galpha2." J. Cell. Biochem. 66: 268-276.
	
Gulick, A. M. and I. Rayment (1997). "Structural studies on myosin II: Communication between distant protein domains." Bioessays 19: 561-569.
	
Gulick, A. M., et al. (1997). "X-ray structures of the MgADP, MgATPgammaS, and MgAMPPNP complexes of the Dictyostelium discoideum myosin motor domain." Biochemistry 36: 11619-11628.
	
Gomer, R. H. (1997). "Cell-density sensing: Come on inside and tell us about it." Curr. Biol. 7: R721-R722.
	
Gollop, R. and A. R. Kimmel (1997). "Control of cell-type specific gene expression in Dictyostelium by the general transcription factor GBF." Development 124: 3395-3405.
	
Ginsburg, G. T. and A. R. Kimmel (1997). "Autonomous and nonautonomous regulation of axis formation by antagonistic signaling via 7-span cAMP receptors and GSK3 in Dictyostelium." Genes Devel. 11: 2112-2123.
	
Giese, K. C. and J. A. Spudich (1997). "Phenotypically selected mutations in myosin's actin binding domain demonstrate intermolecular contacts important for motor functions." Biochemistry 36: 8465-8473.
	
Giese, K. C. (1997). The roles of interactions between actin and myosin in force generation. Stanford, CA, Stanford University: 110.
	
Gauthier, M. L., et al. (1997). "Endogenous autoinhibitors regulate changes in actin tyrosine phosphorylation during Dictyostelium spore germination." Cell. Signal. 9: 79-83.
	
Furukawa, R. and M. Fechheimer (1997). "The structure, function, and assembly of actin filament bundles." Int. Rev. Cytol. 175: 29-90.
	
Fukuzawa, M., et al. (1997). "cudA: A Dictyostelium gene with pleiotropic effects on cellular differentiation and slug behaviour." Development 124: 2719-2728.
	
Fukui, Y. and S. Inoue (1997). "Amoeboid movement anchored by eupodia, new actin-rich knobby feet in Dictyostelium." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 36: 339-354.
	
Fukui, Y., et al. (1997). "Dynamics of GFP-coronin and eupodia in live Dictyostelium observed with real-time confocal optics." Biol. Bull. 193: 224-225.
	
Fujita, H., et al. (1997). "Characterization of mutant myosins of Dictyostelium discoideum equivalent to human familial hypertrophic cardiomyopathy mutants - Molecular force level of mutant myosins may have a prognostic implication." J. Clin. Invest. 99: 1010-1015.
	
Fucini, P., et al. (1997). "The repeating segments of the F-actin cross-linking gelation factor (ABP-120) have an immunoglobulin-like fold." Nature Struct. Biol. 4: 223-230.
	
Fucini, P., et al. (1997). "Crystallization and preliminary X-ray diffraction characterization of a dimerizing fragment of the rod domain of the Dictyostelium gelation factor (ABP-120)." J. Struct. Biol. 120: 192-195.
	
Freeze, H. H., et al. (1997). "Consequences of disrupting the gene that encodes alpha-glucosidase II in the N-linked oligosaccharide biosynthesis pathway of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Genet. 21: 177-186.
	
Freeze, H. H. (1997). Post-translational modification and sorting of lysosomal enzymes in Dictyostelium: a perspective. Dictyostelium - A model system for cell and developmental biology. Y. Maeda, K. Inouye and I. Takeuchi. Tokyo, Japan, Universal Academy Press: 93-107.
	
Flick, K. M., et al. (1997). "The wacA gene of Dictyostelium discoideum is a developmentally regulated member of the MIP family." Gene 195: 127-130.
	
Fisher, P. R., et al. (1997). "Photosensory and thermosensory responses in Dictyostelium slugs are specifically impaired by absence of the F-actin cross-linking gelation factor (ABP-120)." Curr. Biol. 7: 889-892.
	
Fisher, P. R. (1997). Directional movement of migrating slugs. Dictyostelium - A model system for cell and developmental biology. Y. Maeda, K. Inouye and I. Takeuchi. Tokyo, Japan, Universal Academy Press: 437-452.
	
Fisher, P. R. (1997). "Genetics of phototaxis in a model eukaryote, Dictyostelium discoideum." Bioessays 19: 397-407.
	
Fields, S. D., et al. (1997). "Spray-freezing freeze substitution (SFFS) of cell suspensions for improved preservation of ultrastructure." Microsc. Res. Techn. 38: 315-328.
	
Fey, P. and E. C. Cox (1997). "Gene trapping with GFP: the isolation of developmental mutants in the slime mold Polysphondylium." Curr. Biol. 7: 909-912.
	
Etchebehere, L. C., et al. (1997). "The catalytic subunit of Dictyostelium cAMP-dependent protein kinase - Role of the N-terminal domain and of the C-terminal residues in catalytic activity and stability." Eur. J. Biochem. 248: 820-826.
	
Estevez, A. M., et al. (1997). "Cloning, sequencing and developmental expression of phosphofructokinase from Dictyostelium discoideum." Eur. J. Biochem. 243: 442-451.
	
Escalante, R., et al. (1997). "Chemotaxis to cAMP and slug migration in Dictyostelium both depend on MigA, a BTB protein." Mol. Biol. Cell 8: 1763-1775.
	
Ennis, H. L., et al. (1997). Molecular organization and developmental regulation of a Dictyostelium discoideum spore germination-specific cellulase gene and protein. Dictyostelium - A model system for cell and developmental biology. Y. Maeda, K. Inouye and I. Takeuchi. Tokyo, Japan, Universal Academy Press: 393-407.
	
Eddy, R. J., et al. (1997). "Capping protein terminates but does not initiate chemoattractant-induced actin assembly in Dictyostelium." J. Cell Biol. 139: 1243-1253.
	
Dunn, G., et al. (1997). I.5 Protrusion, retraction and the efficiency of cell locomotion. Dynamics of Cell and Tissue Motion. W. Alt, A. Deutsch and G. Dunn. Basel, Switzerland, Birkhauser Verlag: 33-46.
	
Dunbar, A. J. and J. F. Wheldrake (1997). Ammonia metabolism during the development of Dictyostelium discoideum and the role of glutamine synthetase. Dictyostelium - A model system for cell and developmental biology. Y. Maeda, K. Inouye and I. Takeuchi. Tokyo, Japan, Universal Academy Press: 337-348.
	
Dunbar, A. J. and J. F. Wheldrake (1997). "Purification and properties of glutamine synthetase from the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Cell Biol. 75: 217-227.
	
Dunbar, A. J. and J. F. Wheldrake (1997). "Analysis of mRNA levels for developmentally regulated prespore specific glutamine synthetase in Dictyostelium discoideum." Devel. Growth Differ. 39: 617-624.
	
Dunbar, A. J. and J. F. Wheldrake (1997). "Effect of the glutamine synthetase inhibitor, methionine sulfoximine, on the growth and differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 151: 163-168.
	
Dormann, D., et al. (1997). "Twisted scroll waves organize Dictyostelium mucoroides slugs." J. Cell Sci. 110: 1831-1837.
	
Dembinsky, A., et al. (1997). "Autophosphorylation of Dictyostelium myosin II heavy chain-specific protein kinase C is required for its activation and membrane dissociation." J. Biol. Chem. 272: 828-834.
	
de Maria, A. C., et al. (1997). "Cloning, structural analysis and expression of the gene encoding Hsp32 from Dictyostelium discoideum." Gene 193: 173-180.
	
Darnell, J. E. (1997). "Phosphotyrosine signaling and the single cell:metazoan boundary." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 94: 11767-11769.
	
Dallon, J. C., et al. (1997). III.3 Models of Dictyostelium discoideum aggregation. Dynamics of Cell and Tissue Motion. W. Alt, A. Deutsch and G. Dunn. Basel, Switzerland, Birkhauser Verlag: 193-202.
	
Dallon, J. C. and H. G. Othmer (1997). "A discrete cell model with adaptive signalling for aggregation of Dictyostelium discoideum." Phil. Trans. R. Soc. Lond. B 352: 391-417.
	
Coukell, M. B., et al. (1997). "The patB gene of Dictyostelium discoideum encodes a P-type H+-ATPase isoform essential for growth and development under acidic conditions." Microbiology 143: 3877-3888.
	
Cotter, D. A., et al. (1997). Roles of proteinases in development of Dictyostelium. Dictyostelium - A model system for cell and developmental biology. Y. Maeda, K. Inouye and I. Takeuchi. Tokyo, Japan, Universal Academy Press: 325-335.
	
Cote, G. P., et al. (1997). "Mapping of the novel protein kinase catalytic domain of Dictyostelium myosin II heavy chain kinase A." J. Biol. Chem. 272: 6846-6849.
	
Corthals, G. L., et al. (1997). "Purification by reflux electrophoresis of whey proteins and of a recombinant protein expressed in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Chrom. A 773: 299-309.
	
Clarke, M. and J. Heuser (1997). Water and ion transport. Dictyostelium - A model system for cell and developmental biology. Y. Maeda, K. Inouye and I. Takeuchi. Tokyo, Japan, Universal Academy Press: 75-91.
	
Clark, A., et al. (1997). "A ubiquitin-conjugating enzyme is essential for developmental transitions in Dictyostelium." Mol. Biol. Cell 8: 1989-2002.
	
Clancy, C. E., et al. (1997). "Identification of a protein kinase from Dictyostelium with homology to the novel catalytic domain of myosin heavy chain kinase A." J. Biol. Chem. 272: 11812-11815.
	
Chisholm, R. L. (1997). "Cytokinesis: A regulatory role for Ras-related proteins?" Curr. Biol. 7: R648-R650.
	
Chen, M. Y., et al. (1997). "A novel cytosolic regulator, Pianissimo, is required for chemoattractant receptor and G protein-mediated activation of the 12 transmembrane domain adenylyl cyclase in Dictyostelium." Genes Devel. 11: 3218-3231.
	
Chen, M. Y. (1997). Signaling through chemoattractant receptors in Dictyostelium. Baltimore, MD, The Johns Hopkins University: 93.
	
Chen, C. F. (1997). RasG mediates cell-substratum adhesion in Dictyostelium discoideum. Stony Brook, NY, State University of New York (SUNY) at Stony Brook: 163.
	
Chaumont, F., et al. (1997). "Expression of an Arabidopsis plasma membrane aquaporin in Dictyostelium results in hypoosmotic sensitivity and developmental abnormalities." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 94: 6202-6209.
	
Bukenberger, M., et al. (1997). "Molecular cloning of a cDNA encoding the nucleosome core histone H3 from Dictyostelium discoideum by genetic screening in yeast." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1352: 85-90.
	
Buczynski, G., et al. (1997). "Inactivation of two Dictyostelium discoideum genes, DdPIK1 and DdPIK2, encoding proteins related to mammalian phosphatidylinositide 3-kinases, results in defects in endocytosis, lysosome to postlysosome transport, and actin cytoskeleton organization." J. Cell Biol. 136: 1271-1286.
	
Buczynski, G., et al. (1997). "Evidence for a recycling role for Rab7 in regulating a late step in endocytosis and in retention of lysosomal enzymes in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Biol. Cell 8: 1343-1360.
	
Brown, J. M., et al. (1997). Control of transcriptional regulation by signal transduction pathways in Dictyostelium during multicellular development. Dictyostelium - A model system for cell and developmental biology. Y. Maeda, K. Inouye and I. Takeuchi. Tokyo, Japan, Universal Academy Press: 245-265.
	
Bretschneider, T., et al. (1997). "A model for cell movement during Dictyostelium mound formation." J. Theor. Biol. 189: 41.
	
Bretschneider, T. and F. Siegert (1997). Zellulare Schleimpilze - Ein Modellsystem fur Zell-Zell Kommunikation: Experimente und Computersimulation. Nichtlineare Dynamik, Chaos und Strukturbildung. R. Meyer-Spasche, M. Rast and C. Zenger. Munchen, Germany, Akademischer Verlag: 25-33.
	
Brazill, D. T., et al. (1997). "A cell-density sensing factor regulates the lifetime of a chemoattractant-induced Galpha-GTP conformation." FEBS Lett. 404: 100-104.
	
Brandon, M. A., et al. (1997). "Molecular characterization of a Dictyostelium G-protein alpha-subunit required for development." Gene 200: 99-105.
	
Brandon, M. A. and G. J. Podgorski (1997). "Galpha3 regulates the cAMP signaling system in Dictyostelium." Mol. Biol. Cell 8: 1677-1685.
	
Bracco, E., et al. (1997). "Cloning and transcriptional regulation of the gene encoding the vacuolar/H+ ATPase B subunit of Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 419: 37-40.
	
Bozzone, D. M. (1997). "Feeding behaviors in cellular slime mold amoebae: a microbial system to study competition." Am. Biol. Teacher 59: 565-572.
	
Bobkov, A. A., et al. (1997). "Nucleotide and actin binding properties of the isolated motor domain from Dictyostelium discoideum myosin." J. Muscle Res. Cell Motil. 18: 563-571.
	
Blanton, R. L. (1997). Cellulose biogenesis in Dictyostelium discoideum. Dictyostelium - A model system for cell and developmental biology. Y. Maeda, K. Inouye and I. Takeuchi. Tokyo, Japan, Universal Academy Press: 379-391.
	
Bisson, R., et al. (1997). "Subunit change in cytochrome C oxidase: Identification of the oxygen switch in Dictyostelium." EMBO J. 16: 739-749.
	
Birney, M. A. (1997). Characterization of the regulation of succinyl-coenzyme A synthetase. St. Louis, MO, Saint Louis University: 98.
	
Bauer, C. B., et al. (1997). "X-ray crystal structure and solution fluorescence characterization of Mg 2'(3')-O-(N-methylanthraniloyl) nucleotides bound to the Dictyostelium discoideum myosin motor domain." J. Mol. Biol. 274: 394-407.
	
Balint-Kurti, P., et al. (1997). "rZIP, a RING-leucine zipper protein that regulates cell fate determination during Dictyostelium development." Development 124: 1203-1213.
	
Baldauf, S. L. and W. F. Doolittle (1997). "Origin and evolution of the slime molds (Mycetozoa)." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 94: 12007-12012.
	
Azhar, M. and V. Nanjundiah (1997). "Is cAMP necessary for Dictyostelium development?" Curr. Sci. 73: 560-562.
	
Azhar, M., et al. (1997). "Stimulation by DIF causes an increase of intracellular Ca2+ in Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Cell Res. 230: 403-406.
	
Aubry, L., et al. (1997). "The Dictyostelium mitogen-activated protein kinase ERK2 is regulated by ras and cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) and mediates PKA function." J. Biol. Chem. 272: 3883-3886.
	
Aubry, L., et al. (1997). Cytoskeletal dependence and modulation of endocytosis in Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae. Dictyostelium - A model system for cell and developmental biology. Y. Maeda, K. Inouye and I. Takeuchi. Tokyo, Japan, Universal Academy Press: 65-74.
	
Aubry, L., et al. (1997). "Fluid-phase endocytosis in the amoebae of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum: Mathematical modelling of kinetics and pH evolution." J. Theor. Biol. 184: 89-98.
	
Atzmony, D., et al. (1997). "Altruistic behaviour in Dictyostelium discoideum explained on the basis of individual selection." Curr. Sci. 72: 142-145.
	
Assil, I. Q. (1997). Melting behavior of Dictyostelium discoideum DNA and determination of its d(A)(n) and d(T)(n) homopolymeric tract distribution. Lowell, MA, University of Lowell: 143.
	
Araki, T., et al. (1997). "Symmetry breaking in Dictyostelium morphogenesis: Evidence that a combination of cell cycle stage and positional information dictates cell fate." Dev. Biol. 192: 645-648.
	
Arakane, T. and Y. Maeda (1997). "Relevance of histone H1 kinase activity to the G2/M transition during the cell cycle of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Plant Res. 110: 81-85.
	
Anjard, C., et al. (1997). "A new spore differentiation factor (SDF) secreted by Dictyostelium cells is phosphorylated by the cAMP dependent protein kinase." Differentiation 62: 43-49.
	
Amagai, A. (1997). Initiation of sexual development and its regulatory mechanism. Dictyostelium - A model system for cell and developmental biology. Y. Maeda, K. Inouye and I. Takeuchi. Tokyo, Japan, Universal Academy Press: 235-241.
	
Alexander, S. (1997). Developmental regulation and function of glycoproteins in Dictyostelium discoideum. Dictyostelium - A model system for cell and developmental biology. Y. Maeda, K. Inouye and I. Takeuchi. Tokyo, Japan, Universal Academy Press: 349-362.
	
Albert, C., et al. (1997). "Biological variability in the structures of diphosphoinositol polyphosphates in Dictyostelium discoideum and mammalian cells." Biochem. J. 327: 553-560.
	
Aizawa, H., et al. (1997). "A green fluorescent protein actin fusion protein dominantly inhibits cytokinesis, cell spreading, and locomotion in Dictyostelium." Cell Struct. Funct. 22: 335-345.
	
Aizawa, H., et al. (1997). "Live dynamics of Dictyostelium cofilin suggests a role in remodeling actin latticework into bundles." J. Cell Sci. 110: 2333-2344.
	
Aiba, K., et al. (1997). "Isoforms of gp138, a cell-fusion related protein in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biochem. 121: 238-243.
	
Aguado-Velasco, C. and M. S. Bretscher (1997). "Dictyostelium myosin II null mutant can still cap Con A receptors." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 94: 9684-9686.
	
Adachi, H., et al. (1997). "Dictyostelium IQGAP-related protein specifically involved in the completion of cytokinesis." J. Cell Biol. 137: 891-898.
	
Ziegler, I. and M. Gutlich (1996). "Tetrahydropterins interfere with the G protein pathway in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 221: 368-373.
	
Zhukovskaya, N., et al. (1996). "cAMP-dependent protein kinase is required for the expression of a gene specifically expressed in Dictyostelium prestalk cells." Dev. Biol. 179: 27-40.
	
Zhang, S., et al. (1996). "A C-terminal mutant of the G protein beta subunit deficient in the activation of phospholipase C-beta." J. Biol. Chem. 271: 20208-20212.
	
Zachara, N. E., et al. (1996). "Recombinant prespore-specific antigen from Dictyostelium discoideum is a beta-sheet glycoprotein with a spacer peptide modified by O-linked N-acetylglucosamine." Eur. J. Biochem. 238: 511-518.
	
Yumura, S., et al. (1996). "Intracellular free calcium responses during chemotaxis of Dictyostelium cells." J. Cell Sci. 109: 2673-2678.
	
Yumura, S. (1996). "Spatial distribution of fluorescently labeled actin in living Dictyostelium amoebae." Cell Struct. Funct. 21: 189-197.
	
Yumura, S. (1996). "Rapid redistribution of myosin II in living Dictyostelium amoebae, as revealed by fluorescent probes introduced by electroporation." Protoplasma 192: 217-227.
	
Yu, Y. M. and C. L. Saxe III (1996). "Differential distribution of cAMP receptors cAR2 and cAR3 during Dictyostelium development." Dev. Biol. 173: 353-356.
	
Yu, Y. (1996). Localization of a cAMP receptor subtype, cAR2, and its role in Dictyostelium discoideum development. Atlanta, GA, Emory University: 177.
	
Yoshida, K., et al. (1996). A voltage- and K+-dependent K+ channel from Dictyostelium membrane fraction enriched in contractile vacuole. Progr. Biophys. Mol. Biol.
	
Yamaguchi, N., et al. (1996). "Targeted disruption of genes for gp138, a cell-fusion-related protein in Dictyostelium discoideum, revealed the existence of a third gene." Devel. Growth Differ. 38: 271-279.
	
Yamada, Y. and K. Okamoto (1996). "Cellular interactions which control differentiation and morphogenesis in Dictyostelium." Tanpakushitsu Kakusan Koso 41: 1560-1568.
	
Xu, X. X. S., et al. (1996). "Cell-cell adhesion prevents mutant cells lacking myosin II from penetrating aggregation streams of Dictyostelium." Dev. Biol. 175: 218-226.
	
Xie, Y. Y., et al. (1996). "Antisense RNA inhibition of the putative vacuolar H+-ATPase proteolipid of Dictyostelium reduces intracellular Ca2+ transport and cell viability." J. Cell Sci. 109: 489-497.
	
Wood, S. A., et al. (1996). "RtoA links initial cell type choice to the cell cycle in Dictyostelium." Development 122: 3677-3685.
	
Wong, E. F. S., et al. (1996). "Molecular cloning and characterization of DdCAD-1, a Ca2+-dependent cell-cell adhesion molecule, in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 271: 16399-16408.
	
Witter, K., et al. (1996). "Molecular cloning of a cDNA coding for GTP cyclohydrolase I from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. J. 319: 27-32.
	
Williamson, B. D., et al. (1996). "Isolation and characterization of glycogen synthase in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Genet. 19: 350-364.
	
Wetterauer, B., et al. (1996). "Wild-type strains of Dictyostelium discoideum can be transformed using a novel selection cassette driven by the promoter of the ribosomal V18 gene." Plasmid 36: 169-181.
	
West, C. M., et al. (1996). "Purification and characterization of an alpha1,2-L-fucosyltransferase, which modifies the cytosolic protein FP21, from the cytosol of Dictyostelium." J. Biol. Chem. 271: 12024-12035.
	
West, C. M., et al. (1996). "SP75 is encoded by the DP87 gene and belongs to a family of modular Dictyostelium discoideum outer layer spore coat proteins." Microbiology 142: 2227-2243.
	
Wessels, D., et al. (1996). "A Dictyostelium myosin I plays a crucial role in regulating the frequency of pseudopods formed on the substratum." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 33: 64-79.
	
Wells, D. J. (1996). Characterization of the Tdd-4 transposable element from Dictyostelium discoideum. Logan, UT, Utah State University: 90.
	
Wang, Y. C., et al. (1996). "Dictyostelium protein kinase C-delta-like protein is localized in the cell nucleus." Biol. Cell 86: 103-109.
	
Wang, N., et al. (1996). "A two-component histidine kinase gene that functions in Dictyostelium development." EMBO J. 15: 3890-3898.
	
Vithalani, K. K., et al. (1996). "Isolation and characterization of a novel cytokinesis-deficient mutant in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell. Biochem. 62: 290-301.
	
van Oss, C., et al. (1996). "Spatial pattern formation during aggregation of the slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Theor. Biol. 181: 203-213.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M., et al. (1996). "The cell density factor CMF regulates the chemoattractant receptor cAR1 in Dictyostelium." J. Cell Biol. 134: 1543-1549.
	
van Es, S., et al. (1996). "Adenylyl cyclase G, an osmosensor controlling germination of Dictyostelium spores." J. Biol. Chem. 271: 23623-23625.
	
van Dijken, P., et al. (1996). "Dictyostelium discoideum contains three inositol monophosphatase activities with different substrate specificities and sensitivities to lithium. Correction 316:1007(1996)." Biochem. J. 314: 491-495.
	
Vadell, E. M. and J. C. Cavender (1996). Dictyostelid cellular slime molds from forest soils of Iguazu Falls and the Jesuitic missions ruins of Argentina. Icsem 2.
	
Uyeda, T. Q. P., et al. (1996). "The neck region of the myosin motor domain acts as a lever arm to generate movement." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 93: 4459-4464.
	
Urushihara, H. and K. Aiba (1996). "Protease-sensitive component(s) on the cell surface prevents self-fusion in a bisexual strain of Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Struct. Funct. 21: 41-46.
	
Urushihara, H. (1996). "Choice of partners: Sexual cell interactions in Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Struct. Funct. 21: 231-236.
	
Tsang, A., et al. (1996). "A prespore-specific gene of Dictyostelium discoideum encodes the small subunit of ribonucleotide reductase." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1309: 100-108.
	
Trinchera, M. and S. Bozzaro (1996). "Dictyostelium cytosolic fucosyltransferase synthesizes H type 1 trisaccharide in vitro." FEBS Lett. 395: 68-72.
	
Tillner, J., et al. (1996). "Developmentally regulated promoters from Dictyostelium discoideum as molecular markers for testing potential teratogens." Pharmazie 51: 902-906.
	
Temesvari, L. A., et al. (1996). "Cloning and characterization of a Dictyostelium discoideum cDNA encoding a protein related to the medium chain subunit of clathrin-associated adaptor complexes." Gene 183: 47-51.
	
Temesvari, L. A., et al. (1996). "Involvement of the vacuolar proton-translocating ATPase in multiple steps of the endo-lysosomal system and in the contractile vacuole system of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 109: 1479-1495.
	
Temesvari, L. A., et al. (1996). "Environmental influence of trehalogenesis in amoebae of the cellular slime molds." Mycologia 88: 819-830.
	
Temesvari, L. A., et al. (1996). "Examination of the endosomal and lysosomal pathways in Dictyostelium discoideum myosin I mutants." J. Cell Sci. 109: 663-673.
	
Taylor, J. G., et al. (1996). "Detection of cellulose with improved specificity using laser-based instruments." Biotechnic Histochem. 71: 215-223.
	
Tao, Y. P., et al. (1996). "Nitric oxide inhibits the initiation of cAMP pulsing in D.  discoideum without altering receptor-activated adenylate cyclase." Cell. Signal. 8: 27-34.
	
Sucgang, R. S. (1996). The extracellular cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase of Dictyostelium discoideum: its role during multicellular development and targeted gene disruption. New York, NY, Columbia Univ.: 85.
	
Stoeckelhuber, M., et al. (1996). "Structure/function studies on the pH-dependent actin-binding protein hisactophilin in Dictyostelium mutants." J. Cell Sci. 109: 1825-1835.
	
Stephenson, S. L., et al. (1996). Dictyostelid cellular slime molds on subantarctic Macquarie Island. Proc. West Virg. Acad. Sci.
	
Stephenson, S. L., et al. (1996). Distribution and ecology of dictyostelid cellular slime molds on subantarctic Macquarie Island. Icsem 2.
	
Stephenson, S. L., et al. (1996). Dictyostelid cellular slime molds of New Zealand. Icsem 2.
	
Stephenson, S. L. and J. C. Landolt (1996). "The vertical distribution of dictyostelids and myxomycetes in the soil/litter microhabitat." Nova Hedwigia 62: 105-117.
	
Stephenson, S. L. and J. C. Cavender (1996). Ch. 8. Dictyostelids and Myxomycetes. Methods for the examination of organismal diversity in soils and sediments. G. S. Hall. Wallingford, Oxon, UK, CAB International: 91-101.
	
Stein, T. and G. Gerisch (1996). "Oriented binding of a lipid-anchored cell adhesion protein onto a biosensor surface using hydrophobic immobilization and photoactive crosslinking." Anal. Biochem. 237: 252-259.
	
Spiegel, F. W. (1996). Relationships between protostelids and myxomycetes. Icsem 2.
	
Spann, T. P., et al. (1996). "Mutagenesis and gene identification in Dictyostelium by shotgun antisense." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 93: 5003-5007.
	
Soede, R. D. M., et al. (1996). "Extracellular cAMP depletion triggers stalk gene expression in Dictyostelium: disparities in developmental timing and dose dependency indicate that prespore induction and stalk repression by cAMP are mediated by separate signaling pathways." Dev. Biol. 177: 152-159.
	
Smith, J. L., et al. (1996). "Activation of Dictyostelium myosin light chain kinase a by phosphorylation of Thr166." EMBO J. 15: 6075-6083.
	
Smith, J. L., et al. (1996). "Myosin light chain kinase (MLCK) gene disruption in Dictyostelium: A role for MLCK-A in cytokinesis and evidence for multiple MLCKs." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 93: 12321-12326.
	
Smith, C. A. and I. Rayment (1996). "X-ray structure of the magnesium(II).ADP.vanadate complex of the Dictyostelium discoideum myosin motor domain to 1.9 angstrom resolution." Biochemistry 35: 5404-5417.
	
Shoffner, J. D. and A. De Lozanne (1996). "Sequences in the myosin II tail required for self-association." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 218: 860-864.
	
Shiraishi, F. and M. A. Savageau (1996). "The tricarboxylic acid cycle in Dictyostelium discoideum - Two methods of analysis applied to the same model." J. Theor. Biol. 178: 219-222.
	
Shelden, E. and D. A. Knecht (1996). "Dictyostelium cell shape generation requires myosin II." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 35: 59-67.
	
Shaulsky, G. and W. F. Loomis (1996). "Initial cell type divergence in Dictyostelium is independent of DIF-1." Dev. Biol. 174: 214-220.
	
Shaulsky, G., et al. (1996). "Developmental signal transduction pathways uncovered by genetic suppressors." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 93: 15260-15265.
	
Sesaki, H. and C. H. Siu (1996). "Novel redistribution of the Ca2+-dependent cell adhesion molecule DdCAD-1 during development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 177: 504-516.
	
Sellers, J. R., et al. (1996). "A myosin family reunion." J. Muscle Res. Cell Motil. 17: 7-22.
	
Schuster, S. C., et al. (1996). "The hybrid histidine kinase DokA is part of the osmotic response system of Dictyostelium." EMBO J. 15: 3880-3889.
	
Schoen, C. D., et al. (1996). "Guanylate cyclase activity in permeabilized Dictyostelium discoideum cells." J. Cell. Biochem. 60: 411-423.
	
Schlatterer, C. and R. Schaloske (1996). "Calmidazolium leads to an increase in the cytosolic Ca2+ concentration in Dictyostelium discoideum by induction of Ca2+ release from intracellular stores and influx of extracellular Ca2+." Biochem. J. 313: 661-667.
	
Scheffzek, K., et al. (1996). "Crystal structure of the complex of UMP/CMP kinase from Dictyostelium discoideum and the bisubstrate inhibitor P1-(5'-adenosyl) P5-(5'-uridyl) pentaphosphate (UP5A) and Mg2+ at 2.2 Angstrom: Implications for water-mediated specificity." Biochemistry 35: 9716-9727.
	
Schaap, P., et al. (1996). "A model for pattern formation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 60: 1-16.
	
Schaap, P., et al. (1996). "A slow sustained increase in cytosolic Ca2+ levels mediates stalk gene induction by differentiation inducing factor in Dictyostelium." EMBO J. 15: 5177-5183.
	
Saxe III, C. L., et al. (1996). "The cAMP receptor subtype cAR2 is restricted to a subset of prestalk cells during Dictyostelium development and displays unexpected DIF-1 responsiveness." Dev. Biol. 174: 202-213.
	
Saito, T. and H. Ochiai (1996). "Identification of a novel all-cis-5,9,12-heptadecatrienoic acid in the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium pallidum." Lipids 31: 445-447.
	
Sager, B. M. (1996). "Propagation of traveling waves in excitable media." Genes Devel. 10: 2237-2250.
	
Saeki, K., et al. (1996). "Tropomyosin-binding site(s) on the Dictyostelium actin surface as identified by site-directed mutagenesis." Biochemistry 35: 14465-14472.
	
Ruppel, K. M. and J. A. Spudich (1996). "Structure-function studies of the myosin motor domain: Importance of the 50-kDa cleft." Mol. Biol. Cell 7: 1123-1136.
	
Rogers, M. J., et al. (1996). "Bisphosphonates are incorporated into adenine nucleotides by human aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase enzymes." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 224: 863-869.
	
Roger, A. J., et al. (1996). "Evidence for the heterolobosea from phylogenetic analysis of genes encoding glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase." J. Euk. Microbiol. 43: 475-485.
	
Rivero, F., et al. (1996). "The role of the cortical cytoskeleton: F-actin crosslinking proteins protect against osmotic stress, ensure cell size, cell shape and motility, and contribute to phagocytosis and development." J. Cell Sci. 109: 2679-2691.
	
Rivero, F., et al. (1996). "Dictyostelium discoideum cells lacking the 34,000-Dalton actin-binding protein can grow, locomote, and develop, but exhibit defects in regulation of cell structure and movement: A case of partial redundancy." J. Cell Biol. 135: 965-980.
	
Rietdorf, J., et al. (1996). "Analysis of optical density wave propagation and cell movement during mound formation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 177: 427-438.
	
Rebstein, P. J. (1996). Analysis of the effects of the Rap1 and RasG genes on Dictyostelium discoideum cell morphology. Vancouver, BC (Canada), The University of British Columbia: 181.
	
Rayment, I., et al. (1996). "The active site of myosin." Annu. Rev. Physiol. 58: 671-702.
	
Playford, M. P., et al. (1996). "The genomic structure of discoidin receptor tyrosine kinase." Genome Res. 6: 620-627.
	
Pi, M., et al. (1996). "Analysis of a tRNA gene-like sequence (t-element) with TTA at the anticodon position in the mitochondrial DNA of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Plant Res. 109: 1-6.
	
Peterson, M. D., et al. (1996). "Dictyostelium discoideum myoJ: A member of a broadly defined myosin V class or a class XI unconventional myosin?" J. Muscle Res. Cell Motil. 17: 411-424.
	
Pauly, P. C. and C. Klein (1996). "An uncleaved glycosylphosphatidylinositol signal mediates Ca2+-sensitive protein degradation." Biochem. J. 317: 533-540.
	
Patterson, B. and J. A. Spudich (1996). "Cold-sensitive mutations of Dictyostelium myosin heavy chain highlight functional domains of the myosin motor." Genetics 143: 801-810.
	
Parent, C. A. and P. N. Devreotes (1996). "Constitutively active adenylyl cyclase mutant requires neither G proteins nor cytosolic regulators." J. Biol. Chem. 271: 18333-18336.
	
Parent, C. A. and P. N. Devreotes (1996). "Molecular genetics of signal transduction in Dictyostelium." Annu. Rev. Biochem. 65: 411-440.
	
Panneerselvam, K., et al. (1996). Most of the mannose for N-glycosylation of glycoproteins under physiological conditions comes from mannose rather than from glucose. Glycobiology.
	
Pamula, F. and J. F. Wheldrake (1996). "Kinetic properties and the mechanism of activation of NAD-dependent glutamate dehydrogenase from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Mol. Biol. Int. 38: 729-738.
	
Palsson, E. and E. C. Cox (1996). "Origin and evolution of circular waves and spirals in Dictyostelium discoideum territories." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 93: 1151-1155.
	
Palsson, E. (1996). The cAMP signaling system in Dictyostelium discoideum. Princeton, NJ, Princeton University: 128.
	
Oyama, M. (1996). "cGMP accumulation induced by hypertonic stress in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 271: 5574-5579.
	
Ord, T., et al. (1996). Two cysteine proteinase genes cprF and cprG from Dictyostelium discoideum contain unusual serine-rich domains where GlcNAc-1-P residues are added. Glycobiology.
	
Ochiai, H., et al. (1996). "Dimer formation of a cell-cell adhesion protein, gp64 of the cellular slime mold, Polysphondylium pallidum." Plant Cell Physiol. 37: 135-139.
	
Nuckolls, G. H., et al. (1996). "The Dictyostelium dual-specificity kinase splA is essential for spore differentiation." Development 122: 3295-3305.
	
North, M. J., et al. (1996). "Acid-activatable cysteine proteinases in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 271: 14462-14467.
	
Nakata, N. and H. Ochiai (1996). "Inhibitory effects of tunicamycin on cell-cell adhesion and cell reaggregation of the cellular slime mold, Polysphondylium pallidum." J. Plant Res. 109: 193-199.
	
Murray, J. W., et al. (1996). "Bundling of actin filaments by elongation factor 1 alpha inhibits polymerization at filament ends." J. Cell Biol. 135: 1309-1321.
	
Morita, Y. S., et al. (1996). "Localization of Dictyostelium myoB and myoD to filopodia and cell-cell contact sites using isoform-specific antibodies." Eur. J. Cell Biol. 71: 371-379.
	
Moores, S. L., et al. (1996). "Myosin dynamics in live Dictyostelium cells." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 93: 443-446.
	
Miller, C., et al. (1996). "Evolution of promoter sequences: Elements of a canonical promoter for prespore genes of Dictyostelium." J. Mol. Evol. 43: 185-193.
	
Mehta, D. P., et al. (1996). "A lysosomal cysteine proteinase from Dictyostelium discoideum contains N-acetylglucosamine-1-phosphate bound to serine but not mannose-6-phosphate on N-linked oligosaccharides." J. Biol. Chem. 271: 10897-10903.
	
Mehta, D. P., et al. (1996). Phosphotransferase from Dictyostelium discoideum recognizes selected serine residues and a conformational feature of eukaryotic cysteine proteinases. Glycobiology.
	
McMahon, T. L., et al. (1996). "Replicon rescue: A novel strategy to clone the genomic DNA flanking insertions of integrating shuttle vector DNA." Nucl. Acids Res. 24: 4096-4097.
	
McGuire, V. M. (1996). Assembly and function of the PsB multiprotein complex during spore formation in Dictyostelium discoideum. Columbia, MO, University of Missouri: 157.
	
McGuire, V. and S. Alexander (1996). "PsB multiprotein complex of Dictyostelium discoideum - Demonstration of cellulose binding activity and order of protein subunit assembly." J. Biol. Chem. 271: 14596-14603.
	
Malchow, D., et al. (1996). "An increase in cytosolic Ca2+ delays cAMP oscillations in Dictyostelium cells." Biochem. J. 319: 323-327.
	
Malchow, D., et al. (1996). "On the role of calcium during chemotactic signalling and differentiation of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Int. J. Dev. Biol. 40: 135-139.
	
Mahajan, R. K. and J. D. Pardee (1996). "Assembly mechanism of Dictyostelium myosin II: Regulation by K+, Mg2+, and actin filaments." Biochemistry 35: 15504-15514.
	
Maeda, M., et al. (1996). "Seven helix chemoattractant receptors transiently stimulate mitogen-activated protein kinase in Dictyostelium - Role of heterotrimeric G proteins." J. Biol. Chem. 271: 3351-3354.
	
Luo, Q. (1996). Isolation and functional studies of Dictyostelium discoideum cyclin b gene during growth and development (cell cycle). Vancouver, BC (Canada), The University of British Columbia: 171.
	
Luo, C. and D. R. Fontana (1996). "Unsaturated free fatty acids regulate cAMP relay and cell-cell adhesion during Dictyostelium discoideum aggregation." Protoplasma 194: 140-150.
	
Luo, C. (1996). Unsaturated free fatty acids regulate signal transduction and cell-cell adhesion through alterations of cytoplasmic calcium levels in Dictyostelium discoideum (cAMP). Minneapolis, MN, University of Minnesota: 106.
	
Louis, S. A. (1996). The effects of small GTP-binding proteins, Ras and Rap, on Dictyostelium discoideum growth and differentiation. Vancouver, BC (Canada), The University of British Columbia: 215.
	
Loomis, W. F. (1996). "Genetic networks that regulate development in Dictyostelium cells." Microbiol. Rev. 60: 135.
	
Liu, T. Y. and M. Clarke (1996). "The vacuolar proton pump of Dictyostelium discoideum: Molecular cloning and analysis of the 100 kDa subunit." J. Cell Sci. 109: 1041-1051.
	
Liu, G., et al. (1996). "F-actin sequesters elongation factor 1alpha from interaction with aminoacyl-tRNA in a pH-dependent reaction." J. Cell Biol. 135: 953-963.
	
Liu, G., et al. (1996). "pH, EF-1alpha and the cytoskeleton." Trends Cell Biol. 6: 168-171.
	
Lewis, K. E. and D. H. O'Day (1996). "Phagocytosis in Dictyostelium: Nibbling, eating and cannibalism." J. Euk. Microbiol. 43: 65-69.
	
Levine, H., et al. (1996). "Positive genetic feedback governs cAMP spiral wave formation in Dictyostelium." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 93: 6382-6386.
	
Lee, S. K., et al. (1996). "Increasing the specificity of colony hybridization when using heterologous probes." Biotechniques 21: 630-632.
	
Lee, S. F., et al. (1996). "Cloning and characterization of a Dictyostelium myosin I heavy chain kinase activated by Cdc42 and Rac." J. Biol. Chem. 271: 27044-27048.
	
Lee, K. L., et al. (1996). "Competing patterns of signaling activity in Dictyostelium discoideum." Phys. Rev. Lett. 76: 1174-1177.
	
Laussmann, T., et al. (1996). "Structures of diphospho-myo-inositol pentakisphosphate and bisdiphospho-myo-inositol tetrakisphosphate from Dictyostelium resolved by NMR analysis." Biochem. J. 315: 715-720.
	
Lau-Kimbriel, K. A. (1996). The 18 amino acid sequence of beta-n-acetylhexosaminidase required for sorting proteins to prelysosomal vesicles in Dictyostelium discoideum. Fayetteville, AR, University of Arkansas: 118.
	
Larochelle, D. A., et al. (1996). "A novel member of the Rho family of small GTP-binding proteins is specifically required for cytokinesis." J. Cell Biol. 133: 1321-1329.
	
Landolt, J. C. and G. Wong (1996). Dictyostelid cellular slime molds of Hawai'i. Icsem 2.
	
Kuwayama, H. and P. J. M. van Haastert (1996). "Regulation of guanylyl cyclase by a cGMP-binding protein during chemotaxis in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 271: 23718-23724.
	
Kuwayama, H., et al. (1996). "Protection against osmotic stress by cGMP-mediated myosin phosphorylation." Science 271: 207-209.
	
Kuspa, A. and W. F. Loomis (1996). Analysis of the Dictyostelium discoideum genome. Nonmammalian Genomic Analysis. A Practical Guide. B. Birren and E. Lai. San Diego, Ac. Press: 293-318.
	
Kuspa, A. and W. F. Loomis (1996). "Ordered yeast artificial chromosome clones representing the Dictyostelium discoideum genome." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 93: 5562-5566.
	
Kumimoto, H., et al. (1996). "Expression of Dictyostelium early gene, dutA, is independent of cAMP pulses but dependent on protein kinase A." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 140: 121-124.
	
Kravchenko, V. V., et al. (1996). "Dynamics of population waves in a heterogeneous predator-prey system using the example of interaction of waves formed by Dictyostelium discoideum amoeba and a spatially distributed population of immobilized Escherichia coli cells." Dokl. Akad. Nauk. 347: 689-692.
	
Kosaka, C. and C. Pears (1996). Chemoattractants activate ERK2 in Dictyostelium discoideum by diverse signalling pathways. Correction 24:1131(1996). Biochem. Soc. Trans.
	
Koonce, M. P. and M. Samso (1996). "Overexpression of cytoplasmic dynein's globular head causes a collapse of the interphase microtubule network in Dictyostelium." Mol. Biol. Cell 7: 935-948.
	
Kolman, M. F., et al. (1996). "Dictyostelium myosin heavy chain kinase A regulates myosin localization during growth and development." J. Cell Biol. 132: 101-109.
	
Knetsch, M. L. W., et al. (1996). "Dual role of cAMP and involvement of both G-proteins and ras in regulation of ERK2 in Dictyostelium discoideum." EMBO J. 15: 3361-3368.
	
Klein, R., et al. (1996). "Dictyopterin appears at amoebae emergence during spore germination in Dictyostelium." C.R. Acad. Sc. Paris [III] 319: 289-294.
	
Kim, J. Y., et al. (1996). "Social senses: G-protein-coupled receptor signaling pathways in Dictyostelium discoideum." Chem. Biol. 3: 239-243.
	
Kim, J. Y. (1996). Structural requirements for functional regulation of a chemoattractant receptor, cAR1 of Dictyostelium. Baltimore, MD, The Johns Hopkins University: 132.
	
Khosla, M., et al. (1996). "Overexpression of an activated rasG gene during growth blocks the initiation of Dictyostelium development." Mol. Cell. Biol. 16: 4156-4162.
	
Kessin, R. H., et al. (1996). "How cellular slime molds evade nematodes." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 93: 4857-4861.
	
Keeling, P. J. and W. F. Doolittle (1996). "Alpha-tubulin from early-diverging eukaryotic lineages and the evolution of the tubulin family." Mol. Biol. Evol. 13: 1297-1305.
	
Kawata, T., et al. (1996). "RNGB: A Dictyostelium RING finger protein that is specifically located in maturing spore cells." FEBS Lett. 386: 103-109.
	
Kawata, T., et al. (1996). "Evidence that a combined activator-repressor protein regulates Dictyostelium stalk cell differentiation." EMBO J. 15: 3085-3092.
	
Kawakami, S. I., et al. (1996). Taxonomic study of the Polysphondylium pallidum complex (Dictyosteliomycetes) of Japan. Icsem 2.
	
Karlsson, A., et al. (1996). "Nucleoside diphosphate kinase - Investigation of the intersubunit contacts by site-directed mutagenesis and crystallography." J. Biol. Chem. 271: 19928-19934.
	
Karakesisoglou, I., et al. (1996). "Plant profilins rescue the aberrant phenotype of profilin-deficient Dictyostelium cells." Cell. Motil. Cytoskel. 34: 36-47.
	
Kalt, A. and M. Schliwa (1996). "A novel structural component of the Dictyostelium centrosome." J. Cell Sci. 109: 3103-3112.
	
Jung, G., et al. (1996). "Dictyostelium mutants lacking multiple classic myosin I isoforms reveal combinations of shared and distinct functions." J. Cell Biol. 133: 305-323.
	
Jho, E. H. (1996). Molecular cloning of developmentally regulated genes in Dictyostelium discoideum (leukotrienes, myosin heavy chain kinase). East Lansing, MI, Michigan State University: 193.
	
Jermyn, K., et al. (1996). "The initiation of basal disc formation in Dictyostelium discoideum is an early event in culmination." Development 122: 753-760.
	
Janssen, K. P., et al. (1996). "Viscoelastic properties of F-actin solutions in the presence of normal and mutated actin-binding proteins." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 325: 183-189.
	
Insall, R. H., et al. (1996). "The aimless RasGEF is required for processing of chemotactic signals through G-protein-coupled receptors in Dictyostelium." Curr. Biol. 6: 719-729.
	
Insall, R. H. (1996). "Osmoregulation: Cyclic GMP and the big squeeze." Curr. Biol. 6: 516-518.
	
Hughes, J. E., et al. (1996). "Dictyostelium discoideum cobB mutants show reduced heavy metal accumulation associated with gene amplification." Mol. Gen. Genet. 253: 65-73.
	
Hug, C. (1996). Identification of an actin-binding site of capZ and characterization of capping protein mutants (cell motility). St. Louis, MO, Washington University: 141.
	
Horn, F. and J. D. Gross (1996). "Cyclic AMP dependent protein kinase and prestalk-cell expression in Dictyostelium." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 137: 275-278.
	
Horn, F. and J. Gross (1996). "A role for calcineurin in Dictyostelium discoideum development." Differentiation 60: 269-275.
	
Hodgson, H. and D. Wheller (1996). Comparative study of techniques for the isolation of dictyostelids from soil. Icsem 2.
	
Hodgson, H. and D. Wheller (1996). A new species of dictyostelid from the Isle of Man. Icsem 2.
	
Hodgson, H. and D. Wheller (1996). Dictyostelium to Polysphondylium: the missing link? Icsem 2.
	
Hanakam, F., et al. (1996). "Binding of hisactophilin I and II to lipid membranes is controlled by a pH-dependent myristoyl-histidine switch." Biochemistry 35: 11036-11044.
	
Hanakam, F., et al. (1996). "Myristoylated and non-myristoylated forms of the pH sensor protein hisactophilin II: Intracellular shuttling to plasma membrane and nucleus monitored in real time by a fusion with green fluorescent protein." EMBO J. 15: 2935-2943.
	
Hammer III, J. A. and G. Jung (1996). "The sequence of the Dictyostelium myo J heavy chain gene predicts a novel, dimeric, unconventional myosin with a heavy chain molecular mass of 258 kDa." J. Biol. Chem. 271: 7120-7127.
	
Hagiwara, H. (1996). Intraspecific mixed cultures in dictyostelids. Icsem 2.
	
Hagiwara, H. (1996). "Dictyostelids in Pakistan. II. Two newly found species of Dictyostelium, D. discoideum Raper and D. rosarium Raper et Cavender." Bull. Natl. Sci. Mus. Tokyo, Ser. B 22: 99-103.
	
Hagiwara, H. (1996). "Dictyostelids in Japan. X. Two new species of Dictyostelium, D. discoideum pseudo-brefeldianum and D. robustum." Bull. Natl. Sci. Mus. Tokyo, Ser. B 22: 47-54.
	
Hadwiger, J. A., et al. (1996). "Mutations in the Dictyostelium heterotrimeric G protein alpha subunit Galpha5 alter the kinetics of tip morphogenesis." Development 122: 1215-1224.
	
Habura-Fisher, A. M. (1996). Characterization of the D-factor family of signaling molecules in the cellular slime molds Polysphodylium violaceum and Dictyostelium discoideum. Troy, NY, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute: 141.
	
Gutlich, M., et al. (1996). "Control of 6-(D-threo-1',2'-dihydroxypropyl) pterin (dictyopterin) synthesis during aggregation of Dictyostelium discoideum - Involvement of the G-protein-linked signalling pathway in the regulation of GTP cyclohydrolase I activity." Biochem. J. 314: 95-101.
	
Groner, M. and D. Malchow (1996). "Calmodulin-antagonists inhibit vesicular Ca2+ uptake in Dictyostelium." Cell Calcium 19: 105-111.
	
Grimson, M. J., et al. (1996). "Cellulose microfibrils, cell motility, and plasma membrane protein organization change in parallel during culmination in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 109: 3079-3087.
	
Griffiths, K. R., et al. (1996). "Isolation of glycosylation mutants in Dictyostelium discoideum using flow cytometry." Cytometry 25: 133-143.
	
Gregg, K., et al. (1996). "Positional information and whorl morphogenesis in Polysphondylium." Dev. Biol. 180: 511-518.
	
Gottwald, U., et al. (1996). "Identification of a cyclase-associated protein (CAP) homologue in Dictyostelium discoideum and characterization of its interaction with actin." Mol. Biol. Cell 7: 261-272.
	
Gomer, R. H. and R. R. Ammann (1996). "A cell-cycle phase-associated cell-type choice mechanism monitors the cell cycle rather than using an independent timer." Dev. Biol. 174: 82-91.
	
Goldstein, R. E. (1996). "Traveling-wave chemotaxis." Phys. Rev. Lett. 77: 775-778.
	
Goldbeter, A. (1996). Biochemical oscillations and cellular rhythms. The molecular bases of periodic and chaotic behaviour., Cambridge Univ. Press.
	
Giartosio, A., et al. (1996). "Thermal stability of hexameric and tetrameric nucleoside diphosphate kinases - Effect of subunit interaction." J. Biol. Chem. 271: 17845-17851.
	
Geier, A., et al. (1996). "Nuclear protein factor binds specifically to the 3'-regulatory module of the long-interspersed-nuclear-element-like Dictyostelium repetitive element." Eur. J. Biochem. 241: 70-76.
	
Gauci, M. R., et al. (1996). "Observations of single-cell fluorescence spectra in laser flow cytometry." Cytometry 25: 388-393.
	
Gaskins, C., et al. (1996). "The Dictyostelium MAP kinase ERK2 regulates multiple, independent developmental pathways." Genes Devel. 10: 118-128.
	
Gamper, M., et al. (1996). "Multiple roles of the novel protein tyrosine phosphatase PTP3 during Dictyostelium growth and development." Mol. Cell. Biol. 16: 2431-2444.
	
Furukawa, R. and M. Fechheimer (1996). "Role of the Dictyostelium 30 kDa protein in actin bundle formation." Biochemistry 35: 7224-7232.
	
Funamoto, S. and H. Ochiai (1996). "Antisense RNA inactivation of gene expression of a cell-cell adhesion protein (gp64) in the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium pallidum." J. Cell Sci. 109: 1009-1016.
	
Fukuzawa, M. and H. Ochiai (1996). "Molecular cloning and characterization of the cDNA for discoidin II of Dictyostelium discoideum." Plant Cell Physiol. 37: 505-514.
	
Freeland, T. M., et al. (1996). "Apurinic/apyrimidinic (AP) endonuclease from Dictyostelium discoideum: Cloning, nucleotide sequence and induction by sublethal levels of DNA damaging agents." Nucl. Acids Res. 24: 1950-1953.
	
Folk, P., et al. (1996). "The homolog of chromatin binding protein Bx42 identified in Dictyostelium." Gene 181: 229-231.
	
Firtel, R. A. (1996). "Interacting signaling pathways controlling multicellular development in Dictyostelium." Curr. Opin. Genet. Devel. 6: 545-554.
	
Faix, J., et al. (1996). "Cortexillins, major determinants of cell shape and size, are actin-bundling proteins with a parallel coiled-coil tail." Cell 86: 631-642.
	
Faix, J. and W. Dittrich (1996). "DGAP1, a homologue of rasGTPase activating proteins that controls growth, cytokinesis, and development in Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 394: 251-257.
	
Endl, I., et al. (1996). "Antagonistic effects of signal transduction by intracellular and extracellular cAMP on gene regulation in Dictyostelium." Mol. Biol. Cell 7: 17-24.
	
Emslie, K. R., et al. (1996). "Calcium influences the stability and conformation of rotavirus SA11 glycoprotein VP7 expressed in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biotechnol. 50: 149-159.
	
Eichinger, L., et al. (1996). "Mechanical perturbation elicits a phenotypic difference between Dictyostelium wild-type cells and cytoskeletal mutants." Biophys. J. 70: 1054-1060.
	
Egelhoff, T. T., et al. (1996). "Myosin-based cortical tension in Dictyostelium resolved into heavy and light chain-regulated components." J. Muscle Res. Cell Motil. 17: 269-274.
	
Eddy, R. J., et al. (1996). "A major agonist-regulated capping activity in Dictyostelium is due to the capping protein, cap32/34." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1314: 247-259.
	
Eddy, R. J. (1996). The role of aginactin in actin polymerization during Dictyostelium chemotaxis. New York, NY, Yeshiva University: 165.
	
Dusenbery, D. B. (1996). "Information is where you find it." Biol. Bull. 191: 124-128.
	
Drury, L. S. (1996). Differentiation inducing factor (DIF) production in Dictyostelium discoideum: approaches to isolate the biosynthetic genes. Milton Keynes (UK), Open University.
	
Drainas, D. (1996). "The RNase P of Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Biol. Reports 22: 135-138.
	
Dormann, D., et al. (1996). "Analysis of cell movement during the culmination phase of Dictyostelium development." Development 122: 761-769.
	
Deville-Bonne, D., et al. (1996). "Phosphorylation of nucleoside diphosphate kinase at the active site studied by steady-state and time-resolved fluorescence." Biochemistry 35: 14643-14650.
	
Dembinsky, A., et al. (1996). "Chemoattractant-mediated increases in cGMP induce changes in Dictyostelium myosin II heavy chain-specific protein kinase C activities." J. Cell Biol. 134: 911-921.
	
Deering, R. A., et al. (1996). "Some repair-deficient mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum display enhanced susceptibilities to bleomycin." Antimicrob. Agents Chemother. 40: 464-467.
	
Dean, J. P. and G. A. Dervakos (1996). "Design of process-comnpatible biological agents." Comput. Chem. Engin. 20 (Suppl.): S67-S72.
	
Davies, L., et al. (1996). "Vacuolar H+-ATPase and weak base action in Dictyostelium." Mol. Microbiol. 22: 119-126.
	
Dammann, H., et al. (1996). "Primary structure, expression and developmental regulation of a Dictyostelium calcineurin A homologue." Eur. J. Biochem. 238: 391-399.
	
Dallon, J. C. (1996). A mathematical study of chemotaxis in Dictyostelium discoideum. Salt Lake City, UT, The University of Utah: 147.
	
Cox, D., et al. (1996). "Re-expression of ABP-120 rescues cytoskeletal, motility, and phagocytosis defects of ABP-120(-) Dictyostelium mutants." Mol. Biol. Cell 7: 803-823.
	
Cohen, N. R., et al. (1996). "Functional expression of rat GLUT 1 glucose transporter in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. J. 315: 971-975.
	
Clark, J., et al. (1996). Inhibition of myxomycete plasmodial formation by distyostelids. Icsem 2.
	
Chu, Q. A. and Y. Fukui (1996). "In vivo dynamics of myosin II in Dictyostelium by fluorescent analogue cytochemistry." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 35: 254-268.
	
Chia, C. P. (1996). "A 130-kDa plasma membrane glycoprotein involved in Dictyostelium phagocytosis." Exp. Cell Res. 227: 182-189.
	
Chen, P. (1996). Probing the role of nonmuscle myosin regulatory light chain by molecular genetic techniques (Dictyostelium, phosphorylation). Evanston, IL, Northwestern University: 184.
	
Chen, M. Y., et al. (1996). "Signaling through chemoattractant receptors in Dictyostelium." Trends Genet. (TIG) 12: 52-57.
	
Chang, W. T., et al. (1996). "Identification of the cell fate gene stalky in Dictyostelium." Cell 87: 471-481.
	
Chanchao, C. (1996). Generation of cDNA libraries of amoeba, 8 hour, and 12 hour stages of Dictyostelium discoideum. Blacksburg, VA, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University: 44.
	
Cavender, J. C. (1996). Dictyostelid cellular slime molds from the Amazon basin of Peru. Inoculum.
	
Cavallo, D. (1996). Differential activation and deactivation of cysteine proteinases isolated from various stages of the life cycles of the Dictyosteliaceae (Dictyostelium discoideum, Polysphondylium pallidum). Windsor, ON (Canada), University of Windsor: 121.
	
Carrin, I., et al. (1996). "A mutational analysis of Dictyostelium discoideum multicellular development." Microbiology 142: 993-1003.
	
Capasso, J. M., et al. (1996). "Subcellular distribution of 'intersecting' beta-N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase in Dictyostelium discoideum. A likely marker for the Golgi apparatus." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1281: 15-22.
	
Bush, J., et al. (1996). "A role for a Rab4-like GTPase in endocytosis and in regulation of contractile vacuole structure and function in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Biol. Cell 7: 1623-1638.
	
Brzeska, H. and E. D. Korn (1996). "Regulation of class I and class II myosins by heavy chain phosphorylation." J. Biol. Chem. 271: 16983-16986.
	
Brock, D. A., et al. (1996). "A Dictyostelium mutant with defective aggregate size determination." Development 122: 2569-2578.
	
Bonner, J. T. (1996). Sixty years of biology. Essays on evolution and development. Princeton, NJ, Princeton Univ. Press.
	
Barth, C., et al. (1996). "Efficient circularization in Escherichia coli of linear plasmid multimers from Dictyostelium discoideum genomic DNA." Plasmid 36: 86-94.
	
Azhar, M. and V. Nanjundiah (1996). "Spatial patterning of the distribution of Ca2+ in Dictyostelium discoideum as assayed in fine glass capillaries." J. Biosci. 21: 765-774.
	
Azhar, M., et al. (1996). "A Ca2+-dependent early functional heterogeneity in amoebae of Dictyostelium discoideum, revealed by flow cytometry." Exp. Cell Res. 227: 344-351.
	
Atkinson, P. R., et al. (1996). Dictyostelium dipeptidylaminopeptidase. USA, Eli Lilly and Company: 11 pages/14 claims.
	A dipeptidylaminopeptidase (dDAP enzyme) and a method for isolating it from the culture medium of the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum have been presented. The isolated dDAP enzyme has a pH optimum of about 3.5 and a mass of about 225 kDA. The dDAP enzyme has an activity which is somewhat similar to both DAP-I and DAP-III from this organism. Methods for using the dDAP enzyme to remove dipeptides from the N-terminus of recombinantly produced precursor proteins or peptides are also presented. 


Atkinson, P. R., et al. (1996). Method for removing N-terminal dipeptides from precursor polypeptides with dipeptidylaminopeptidase from Dictyostelium discoideum. USA, Eli Lilly and Company: 12 pages/22 claims.
	A method for removing dipeptides from the amino terminus of precursor polypeptides to produce a polypeptide product is presented which comprises contacting the precursor polypeptide for sufficient time to remove the dipeptide with a dipeptidylaminopeptidase (dDAP) from the slime mold, Dictyostelium descoideum, which has a mass of about 225 kilodaltons and a pH optimum of about 3.5. The precursor polypeptides may be made recombinantly and may be analogs of naturally occurring polypeptides. 


Atkinson, P. R. and L. K. Foster (1996). Method for removing N-terminal dipeptides from precursor polypeptides with immobilized dipeptidylaminopeptidase from Dictyostelium discoideum. USA, Eli Lilly and Company: 17 pages/20 claims.
	A method for removing dipeptides from the amino terminus of precursor polypeptides to produce a polypeptide product is presented which comprises contacting the precursor polypeptide for sufficient time to remove the dipeptide with an immobilized dipeptidylaminopeptidase (dDAP) from the slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum, which has a mass of about 225 kilodaltons and a pH optimum of about 3.5. The precursor polypeptides may be made recombinantly and may be analogs of naturally occurring polypeptides. 


Anson, M., et al. (1996). "Myosin motors with artificial lever arms." EMBO J. 15: 6069-6074.
	
Andre, B., et al. (1996). "Dictyostelium discoideum contains a family of calmodulin-related EF-hand proteins that are developmentally regulated." FEBS Lett. 382: 198-202.
	
Ameisen, J. C. (1996). "The origin of programmed cell death." Science 272: 1278-1279.
	
Amagai, A. and Y. Maeda (1996). "Dictyostelium mucoroides cells exhibit cell cycle-dependent sorting behavior as observed in D. discoideum development." Devel. Growth Differ. 38: 33-40.
	
Allen, L. A. H. and A. Aderem (1996). "Mechanisms of phagocytosis." Curr. Opin. Immunol. 8: 36040.
	
Alexopoulos, C. J., et al. (1996). Ch. 28 - Phylum Acrasiomycota - acrasid cellular slime molds. Introductory Mycology, Fourth Edition. C. J. Alexopoulos, C. W. Mims and M. Blackwell. New York, John Wiley & Sons: 770-774.
	
Alexopoulos, C. J., et al. (1996). Ch. 27 - Phylum Dictyosteliomycota - dictyostelid cellular slime molds. Introductory Mycology, Fourth Edition. C. J. Alexopoulos, C. W. Mims and M. Blackwell. New York, John Wiley & Sons: 759-769.
	
Alexander, H., et al. (1996). "repE - The Dictyostelium homolog of the human xeroderma pigmentosum group E gene is developmentally regulated and contains a leucine zipper motif." Nucl. Acids Res. 24: 2295-2301.
	
Alexander, H. and S. Alexander (1996). "Identification of introns by reverse-transcription PCR." Biotechniques 20: 778-780.
	
Aizawa, H., et al. (1996). "Overexpression of cofilin stimulates bundling of actin filaments, membrane ruffling, and cell movement in Dictyostelium." J. Cell Biol. 132: 335-344.
	
Aguado-Velasco, C., et al. (1996). "NDP kinase can modulate contraction of Dictyostelium cytoskeletons." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 34: 194-205.
	
Adler, K., et al. (1996). "Classification of tyrosine kinases from Dictyostelium discoideum with two distinct, complete or incomplete catalytic domains." FEBS Lett. 395: 286-292.
	
Abu-Elneel, K., et al. (1996). "Dictyostelium myosin II is regulated during chemotaxis by a novel protein kinase C." J. Biol. Chem. 271: 977-984.
	
Zhou, K. M., et al. (1995). "A phosphatidylinositol (PI) kinase gene family in Dictyostelium discoideum: Biological roles of putative mammalian p110 and yeast Vps34p PI 3-kinase homologs during growth and development." Mol. Cell. Biol. 15: 5645-5656.
	
Zhang, Q. (1995). Studies of H7 gene function and regulation of its expression by a bidirectional promoter in Dictyostelium discoideum. Nashville, TN, Vanderbilt University: 139.
	
Yumura, S., et al. (1995). "Introduction of macromolecules into living Dictyostelium cells by electroporation." Cell Struct. Funct. 20: 185-190.
	
Yuen, I. S., et al. (1995). "A density-sensing factor regulates signal transduction in Dictyostelium." J. Cell Biol. 129: 1251-1262.
	
Xie, Y. (1995). Role of the vacuolar proton-ATPase in calcium regulation in Dictyostelium discoideum. Toronto, ON (Canada), York University: 157.
	
Wu, W. (1995). Studies on both the structure and function of N-linked oligosaccharides in Dictyostelium discoideum (cohesion). Washington, DC, Georgetown University: 257.
	
Wu, L. J., et al. (1995). "The G protein beta subunit is essential for multiple responses to chemoattractants in Dictyostelium." J. Cell Biol. 129: 1667-1675.
	
Wu, L., et al. (1995). "Regulation of Dictyostelium early development genes in signal transduction mutants." Dev. Biol. 171: 149-158.
	
Wu, L., et al. (1995). "The phosphodiesterase secreted by prestalk cells is necessary for Dictyostelium morphogenesis." Dev. Biol. 167: 1-8.
	
Woodward, S. K. A., et al. (1995). "Kinetic characterization of the catalytic domain of Dictyostelium discoideum myosin." Biochemistry 34: 16056-16064.
	
Williamson, B. D. (1995). Cloning and characterization of glycogen synthase from Dictyostelium discoideum (luciferase reporter gene). Blacksburg, VA, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University: 88.
	
Williams, K. L., et al. (1995). "Recombinant glycoprotein production in the slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Curr. Opin. Biotechnol. 6: 538-542.
	
Williams, J. (1995). "Morphogenesis in Dictyostelium: New twists to a not-so-old tale." Curr. Opin. Genet. Devel. 5: 426-431.
	
Wilkins, M. R. and K. L. Williams (1995). "The extracellular matrix of the Dictyostelium discoideum slug." Experientia 51: 1189-1196.
	
Wiesmuller, L., et al. (1995). "Crystallization and preliminary X-ray analysis of UMP/CMP-kinase from Dictyostelium discoideum with the specific bisubstrate inhibitor P1-(adenosine 5')-P5-(uridine 5')- pentaphosphate (UP5A)." FEBS Lett. 363: 22-24.
	
Wetterauer, B. W., et al. (1995). "Cell-density-dependent repression of discoidin in Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 59: 289-297.
	
Wetterauer, B. W., et al. (1995). "A protein kinase from Dictyostelium discoideum with an unusual acidic repeat domain." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1265: 97-101.
	
Weber, I., et al. (1995). "Motility and substratum adhesion of Dictyostelium wild-type and cytoskeletal mutant cells: A study by RICM/bright-field double-view image analysis." J. Cell Sci. 108: 1519-1530.
	
Voith, G. and T. Dingermann (1995). "Expression of CSA-hm2 fusion in Dictyostelium discoideum under the control of the Dictyostelium vas promoter reveals functional muscarinic receptors." Pharmazie 50: 758-762.
	
Voith, G. and T. Dingermann (1995). "Expression of the human muscarinic receptor gene M2 in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biotechnol. 13: 1225-1229.
	
Vasu, S. K. and L. H. Rome (1995). "Dictyostelium vaults: Disruption of the major proteins reveals growth and morphological defects and uncovers a new associated protein." J. Biol. Chem. 270: 16588-16594.
	
Vasieva, O. O., et al. (1995). "Modeling of Dictyostelium discoideum aggregation." Biofizika 40: 393-411.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M. (1995). "Transduction of the chemotactic cAMP signal across the plasma membrane of Dictyostelium cells." Experientia 51: 1144-1154.
	
van Dijken, P., et al. (1995). "In Dictyostelium discoideum inositol1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate is dephosphorylated by a 3-phosphatase and a 1-phosphatase." Biochem. J. 308: 127-130.
	
van Dijken, P., et al. (1995). "A novel, phospholipase C-independent pathway of inositol1, 4,5-trisphosphate formation in Dictyostelium and rat liver." J. Biol. Chem. 270: 29724-29731.
	
van der Kaay, J., et al. (1995). "Nucleus-associated phosphorylation of Ins(1,4,5)P3 to InsP6 in Dictyostelium." Biochem. J. 312: 911-917.
	
van der Kaay, J. and P. J. M. van Haastert (1995). "Desalting inositolpolyphospates by dialysis." Anal. Biochem. 225: 183-185.
	
van der Kaay, J. and P. J. M. van Haastert (1995). "Stereospecificity of inositol hexakisphosphate dephosphorylation by Paramecium phytase." Biochem. J. 312: 907-910.
	
Vadell, E. M., et al. (1995). "Dictyostelium citrinum, D. medusoides and D. granulophorum: three new members of the dictyosteliaceae from forest soils of Tikal, Guatemala." Mycologia 87: 551-559.
	
Unterweger, N. and C. Schlatterer (1995). "Introduction of calcium buffers into the cytosol of Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae alters cell morphology and inhibits chemotaxis." Cell Calcium 17: 97-110.
	
Uchida, H., et al. (1995). "A maltose-binding-protein-like peptide accumulates after mixing two types of sexually competent cells of a cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum." Cytologia 60: 359-368.
	
Trivinos-Lagos, L. I. (1995). Molecular characterization and structure-function analysis of the intermediate chain of cytoplasmic dynein (Dictyostelium discoideum, microtubules). Evanston, IL, Northwestern University: 146.
	
Titus, M. A., et al. (1995). "Molecular genetic analysis of myoF, a new Dictyostelium myosin I gene." Biophys. J. 68: S152-S157.
	
Ti, Z. C., et al. (1995). "Glycoprotein complexes interacting with cellulose in the ''cell print'' zones of the Dictyostelium discoideum extracellular matrix." Dev. Biol. 168: 332-341.
	
Ti, Z. C., et al. (1995). "Expression purification, and characterisation of secreted recombinant glycoprotein PsA in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biotechnol. 38: 137-149.
	
Tang, Y. H. and H. G. Othmer (1995). "Excitation, oscillations and wave propagation in a G-protein-based model of signal transduction in Dictyostelium discoideum." Phil. Trans. R. Soc. Lond. B 349: 179-195.
	
Stiefenhofer, M. (1995). Singulare Stoerung und Verzweigung bei Schleimpilzen. Konstanz, University of Konstanz.
	
Steinbock, O. and K. Showalter (1995). "Minimal path algorithms." Science 269: 418.
	
Steinbock, O. and S. C. Muller (1995). "Spatial attractors in aggregation patterns of Dictyostelium discoideum." Z. Naturforsch. 50C: 275-281.
	
Steel, L. F., et al. (1995). "Sequence and developmental regulation of the gene that encodes the Dictyostelium discoideum L3 ribosomal protein." Gene 162: 123-128.
	
Stathopoulos, C., et al. (1995). "Partial purification and characterization of RNase P from Dictyostelium discoideum." Eur. J. Biochem. 228: 976-980.
	
Spudich, J. A., et al. (1995). "Myosin structure and function." CSH Symp. Quant. Biol. 60: 783-791.
	
Spiegel, F. W., et al. (1995). "Eumycetozoans and molecular systematics." Can. J. Bot. 73 (Suppl. 1): S738-S746.
	
Souza, G. M., et al. (1995). "Identification of two novel Dictyostelium discoideum cysteine proteinases that carry N-acetylglucosamine-1-P modification." J. Biol. Chem. 270: 28938-28945.
	
Sonnemann, J. and R. Mutzel (1995). "Cytosolic nucleoside diphosphate kinase associated with the translation apparatus may provide GTP for protein synthesis." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 209: 490-496.
	
Soll, D. R. (1995). "The use of computers in understanding how animal cells crawl." Int. Rev. Cytol. 163: 43-104.
	
Smith, J. L., et al. (1995). Myosin light chain kinase-A (D. discoideum). The protein kinase facts book I: Protein-serine kinases. D. G. Hardie and S. K. Hanks. London, Ac. Press. 1: 166-167.
	
Smith, C. A. and I. Rayment (1995). "X-ray structure of the magnesium(II)-pyrophosphate complex of the truncated head of Dictyostelium discoideum myosin to 2.7 angstrom resolution." Biochemistry 34: 8973-8981.
	
Slade, M. B., et al. (1995). Plasmid vectors for cellular slime moulds of the genus Dictyostelium. USA: 35 pages/20 claims.
	The present invention relates generally to the fields of molecular biology and the production of recombinant protein using cellular slime moulds of the genus Dictyostelium. Most particularly, the present invention relates to novel strains of the genus Dictyostelium, recombinant plasmids for use with strains of the genus Dictyostelium, and polypeptides which facilitate the extrachromosomal replication of such plasmids in strains of the genus Dictyostelium. In particular, the present invention provides a polypeptide which facilitates the extrachromosomal replication of a recombinant plasmid in Dictyostelium spp in which the recombinant plasmid includes an origin of replication derived from a Ddp2-like plasmid but which lacks functional genes for extrachromosomal replication in wild type Dictyostelium spp. The extrachromosomal replicating plasmid constructed in accordance with the present invention are suitable for carrying a wide variety of genes and promoter sequences for control production of recombinant proteins by the biotechnology industry. 


Siegert, F. and C. J. Weijer (1995). "Spiral and concentric waves organize multicellular Dictyostelium mounds." Curr. Biol. 5: 937-943.
	
Shutt, D. C., et al. (1995). "Ponticulin plays a role in the positional stabilization of pseudopods." J. Cell Biol. 131: 1495-1506.
	
Shelden, E. and D. A. Knecht (1995). "Mutants lacking myosin II cannot resist forces generated during multicellular morphogenesis." J. Cell Sci. 108: 1105-1115.
	
Shaulsky, G. and W. F. Loomis (1995). "Mitochondrial DNA replication but no nuclear DNA replication during development of Dictyostelium." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 92: 5660-5663.
	
Shaulsky, G., et al. (1995). "A multidrug resistance transporter serine protease gene is required for prestalk specialization in Dictyostelium." Genes Devel. 9: 1111-1122.
	
Sellam, O., et al. (1995). "Overexpression of wild-type and mutant NDP kinase in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Microbiol. 16: 79-85.
	
Segall, J. E., et al. (1995). "A MAP kinase necessary for receptor-mediated activation of adenylyl cyclase in Dictyostelium." J. Cell Biol. 128: 405-413.
	
Schulkes, C. C. G. M., et al. (1995). "Transformation with vectors harboring the neoR selection marker induces germination-specific adenylylcyclase activity in Dictyostelium cells." Exp. Cell Res. 220: 505-508.
	
Schulkes, C. and P. Schaap (1995). "cAMP-dependent protein kinase activity is essential for preaggregative gene expression in Dictyostelium." FEBS Lett. 368: 381-384.
	
Schnuchel, A., et al. (1995). "Structure of severin domain 2 in solution." J. Mol. Biol. 247: 21-27.
	
Schnitzler, G. R., et al. (1995). "Serpentine cAMP receptors may act through a G protein-independent pathway to induce postaggregative development in Dictyostelium." Cell 81: 737-745.
	
Schlenkrich, T., et al. (1995). "A rapid, simple method for the isolation and characterization of the photoreceptor of Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae." FEBS Lett. 364: 276-278.
	
Schlenkrich, T., et al. (1995). "Biochemical and spectroscopic characterization of the putative photoreceptor for phototaxis in amoebae of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Photochem. Photobiol. B-Biol 30: 139-143.
	
Schleicher, M., et al. (1995). "Structure/function studies on cytoskeletal proteins in Dictyostelium amoebae as a paradigm." FEBS Lett. 369: 38-42.
	
Schindl, M., et al. (1995). "Cell-substrate interactions and locomotion of Dictyostelium wild-type and mutants defective in three cytoskeletal proteins: A study using quantitative reflection interference contrast microscopy." Biophys. J. 68: 1177-1190.
	
Schaloske, R., et al. (1995). "Stimulation of calcium influx by platelet activating factor in Dictyostelium." J. Cell Sci. 108: 1597-1603.
	
Schaap, P., et al. (1995). "Regulation of Dictyostelium adenylylcyclases by morphogen-induced modulation of cytosolic pH or Ca2+ levels." Dev. Biol. 167: 179-188.
	
Sandona, D., et al. (1995). "Expression of cytochrome c oxidase during growth and development of Dictyostelium." J. Biol. Chem. 270: 5587-5593.
	
Sadiq, M. F. (1995). "Effects of sodium azide and trifluoperazine growth, development and monolayer cell differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biosci. 20: 481-491.
	
Rusk, S. A., et al. (1995). "Design of polymerase chain reaction primers for amplifying nuclear ribosomal DNA from slime molds." Mycologia 87: 140-143.
	
Rusk, S. A. (1995). Determination of phylogenetic relationships of myxomycetes, dictyostelids, and protostelids through nuclear ribosomal RNA gene analysis. Greeley, CO, University of Northern Colorado: 140.
	
Ruscetti, T. (1995). Regulation of lysosomal enzyme targeting in Dictyostelium discoideum. Shreveport, LA, Louisana State University Medical Center: 233.
	
Ruppel, K. M. and J. A. Spudich (1995). "Myosin motor function: Structural and mutagenic approaches." Curr. Opin. Cell Biol. 7: 89-93.
	
Ruppel, K. M. (1995). Molecular mechanism of motor function: structure-function analysis of the motor domain of Dictyostelium myosin II. Stanford, CA, Stanford University: 197.
	
Rohrig, U., et al. (1995). "Coactosin interferes with the capping of actin filaments." FEBS Lett. 374: 284-286.
	
Rogers, M. J., et al. (1995). "Structure-activity relationships of new heterocycle-containing bisphosphonates as inhibitors of bone resorption and as inhibitors of growth of Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae." Mol. Pharmacol. 47: 398-402.
	
Reymond, C. D., et al. (1995). "Dual role of cAMP during Dictyostelium development." Experientia 51: 1166-1174.
	
Reymond, C. D., et al. (1995). "Anchoring of an immunogenic Plasmodium falciparum circumsporozoite protein on the surface of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 270: 12941-12947.
	
Reymond, C. and M. Veron (1995). cAMP-dependent PK (D. discoideum) (PkaC/PkaR, DdPK2/DdPK3). The protein kinase facts book I: Protein-serine kinases. D. G. Hardie and S. K. Hanks. London, Ac. Press. 1: 70-72.
	
Ramalingam, R., et al. (1995). "AT-rich upstream sequence elements regulate spore germination-specific expression of the Dictyostelium discoideum celA gene." Nucl. Acids Res. 23: 3018-3025.
	
Quammen, D. (1995). "Either or neither. Slime molds, binary thought, and the breaking of Alan Thuring." Outside 20(5): 43-48.
	
Protopapas, A. S. (1995). Isolation and characterization of a partial sequence encoding a protein with a putative leucine zipper domain in Dictyostelium discoideum. Montreal, QU (Canada), Concordia University: 124.
	
Prassler, J. (1995). Plastin aus Dictyostelium discoideum: Isolierung, biochemische Charakterisierung und ausschalten dieses aktinbindenden Proteins durch Geninaktivierung. Munich, Germany, Technischen Universitat Munchen.
	
Popp, B., et al. (1995). "Role of sterols in the functional reconstitution of water-soluble mitochondrial porins from different organisms." Biochemistry 34: 3352-3361.
	
Pinter, K. and J. Gross (1995). "Calcium and cell-type-specific gene expression in Dictyostelium." Differentiation 59: 201-206.
	
Peterson, M. D., et al. (1995). "Molecular genetic analysis of myoC, a Dictyostelium myosin I." J. Cell Sci. 108: 1093-1103.
	
Pauly, P. C. and C. Klein (1995). "Lack of glycosyl-phosphatidylinositol anchoring leads to precursor retention by a unique mechanism in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. J. 306: 643-650.
	
Pauly III, P. C. (1995). Inhibition of glycosyl-phosphatidylinositol anchoring and its consequences in Dictyostelium (Dictyostelium discoideum). St. Louis, MO, Saint Louis University: 105.
	
Patterson, B. and J. A. Spudich (1995). "A novel positive selection for identifying cold-sensitive myosin II mutants in Dictyostelium." Genetics 140: 505-515.
	
Parent, C. A. and P. N. Devreotes (1995). "Isolation of inactive and G protein-resistant adenylyl cyclase mutants using random mutagenesis." J. Biol. Chem. 270: 22693-22696.
	
Padh, H. and S. Tanjore (1995). "Localization of cyclic-AMP receptors with acidosomes in Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 368: 358-362.
	
Padh, H. (1995). "Electromagnetic purification of endocytic vacuoles and acidosomes from Dictyostelium." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 316: 643-648.
	
Oyama, M. and K. Kubota (1995). "Activation of adenylate cyclase by divalent cations and polyamines in saponin-treated Dictyostelium discoideum cells." J. Biochem. 118: 117-121.
	
Oohata, A. A. (1995). "Factors controlling prespore cell differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum: Minute amounts of differentiation-inducing factor promote prespore cell differentiation." Differentiation 59: 283-288.
	
Okazaki, K. and S. Yumura (1995). "Differential association of three actin-bundling proteins with microfilaments in Dictyostelium amoebae." Eur. J. Cell Biol. 66: 75-81.
	
Okaichi, K., et al. (1995). "Unique DNA repair property of an ultraviolet-sensitive (radC) mutant of Dictyostelium discoideum." Photochem. Photobiol. 61: 281-284.
	
Ochiai, H., et al. (1995). "Effects of tunicamycin on the development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Anim. Biol. 4: 3-11.
	
O'Day, D. H., et al. (1995). Amoeboid gametes and fertilization in Dictyostelium: gamete and pronuclear fusion are mediated by calmodulin and its binding proteins. Advances in Spermatozoal Taxonomy and Phylogeny. B. G. M. Jamieson, J. Ausio and J. L. Justine. Paris, Memoires du Museum National d'Histoire Naturelles. 166: 23-36.
	
Nuckolls, G. H. and J. A. Spudich (1995). Protein tyrosine kinase 2 (D. discoideum). The protein kinase facts book I: Protein-serine kinases. D. G. Hardie and S. K. Hanks. London, Ac. Press. 1: 376-377.
	
Nuckolls, G. H. and J. A. Spudich (1995). Spore lysis A PK (D.discoideum). (Previously DPyk1). The protein kinase facts book I: Protein-serine kinases. D. G. Hardie and S. K. Hanks. London, Ac. Press. 1: 374-375.
	
Novak, K. D., et al. (1995). "Dictyostelium myosin I double mutants exhibit conditional defects in pinocytosis." J. Cell Biol. 131: 1205-1221.
	
Noegel, A. A. and J. E. Luna (1995). "The Dictyostelium cytoskeleton." Experientia 51: 1135-1143.
	
Noegel, A. A., et al. (1995). Actin and actin-binding proteins in the motility of Dictyostelium. Colloquium Mosbach 1994 - The Cytoskeleton. B. M. Jockusch, E. Mandelkow and K. Weber. Berlin, Springer-Verlag. 45: 117-126.
	
Newell, P. C., et al. (1995). "The role of calcium in aggregation and development of Dictyostelium." Experientia 51: 1155-1165.
	
Newell, P. C. (1995). "Signal transduction and motility of Dictyostelium." Biosci. Reports 15: 445-462.
	
Newell, P. C. (1995). "Calcium, cyclic GMP and the control of myosin II during chemotactic signal transduction of Dictyostelium." J. Biosci. 20: 289-310.
	
Nanjundiah, V. and A. S. Bhogle (1995). "The precision of regulation in Dictyostelium discoideum: Implications for cell-type proportioning in the absence of spatial pattern." Indian J. Biochem. Biophys. 32: 404-416.
	
Mutzel, R. (1995). "Molecular biology, growth and development of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. Introduction." Experientia 51: 1103-1109.
	
Murgia, I., et al. (1995). "An actin-related protein from Dictyostelium discoideum is developmentally regulated and associated with mitochondria." FEBS Lett. 360: 235-241.
	
Morio, T., et al. (1995). "Bsr-REMI: An improved method for gene tagging using a new vector in Dictyostelium." J. Plant Res. 108: 111-114.
	
Morera, S., et al. (1995). "Mechanism of phosphate transfer by nucleoside diphosphate kinase: X-ray structures of the phosphohistidine intermediate of the enzymes from Drosophila and Dictyostelium." Biochemistry 34: 11062-11070.
	
Morandini, P., et al. (1995). "The proximal pathway of metabolism of the chlorinated signal molecule differentiation-inducing factor-1 (DIF-1) in the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium." Biochem. J. 306: 735-743.
	
Moniakis, J., et al. (1995). "Molecular cloning of an intracellular P-type ATPase from Dictyostelium that is up-regulated in calcium-adapted cells." J. Biol. Chem. 270: 28276-28281.
	
Milne, J. L. S., et al. (1995). "Seven helix cAMP receptors stimulate Ca2+ entry in the absence of functional G proteins in Dictyostelium." J. Biol. Chem. 270: 5926-5931.
	
Michaelis, C., et al. (1995). "A Dictyostelium discoideum gene, which is highly related to mo15 from Xenopus, is expressed during growth but not during development." Biochem. Cell Biol. 73: 51-58.
	
Miano, D. C. (1995). Isolation and characterization of a ubiquitinylated histone protein from the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum AX3. Lowell, MA, University of Lowell: 134.
	
Merello, S., et al. (1995). "Characterization and partial purification of a novel enzymatic activity. UDP-GlcNAc:Ser-protein N-acetylglucosamine-1-phosphotransferase from the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 270: 7281-7287.
	
Mehta, D. P., et al. (1995). "Characterization, subcellular localization, and developmental regulation of a cysteine proteinase from Dictyostelium discoideum." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 321: 191-198.
	
Matsuyama, S. I. and Y. Maeda (1995). "Involvement of cyanide-resistant respiration in cell-type proportioning during Dictyostelium development." Dev. Biol. 172: 182-191.
	
Manstein, D. J., et al. (1995). "Cloning vectors for the production of proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum." Gene 162: 129-134.
	
Manstein, D. J. and D. M. Hunt (1995). "Overexpression of myosin motor domains in Dictyostelium: Screening of transformants and purification of the affinity tagged protein." J. Muscle Res. Cell Motil. 16: 325-332.
	
Maniak, M., et al. (1995). "Coronin involved in phagocytosis: Dynamics of particle-induced relocalization visualized by a green fluorescent protein tag." Cell 83: 915-924.
	
Maier, J., et al. (1995). "Homology cloning of GTP-cyclohydrolase I from various unrelated eukaryotes by reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction using a general set of degenerate primers." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 212: 705-711.
	
Ma, S., et al. (1995). Dynein intermediate chain mutations produce mitotic defects in Dictyostelium. Mol. Biol. Cell.
	
Lydan, M. A. and D. A. Cotter (1995). "The role of Ca2+ during spore germination in Dictyostelium: Autoactivation is mediated by the mobilization of Ca2+ while amoebal emergence requires entry of external Ca2+." J. Cell Sci. 108: 1921-1930.
	
Luo, Q., et al. (1995). "Cyclin B and Cdc2 expression and Cd2 kinase activity during Dictyostelium differentiation." DNA Cell Biol. 14: 901-908.
	
Louis, S. A., et al. (1995). RasD. Guidebook to the small GTPases. M. Zerial and L. A. Huber. Oxford, UK, Oxford Univ. Press: 104-106.
	
Loomis, W. F., et al. (1995). "Integrated maps of the chromosomes in Dictyostelium discoideum." Genetics 141: 147-157.
	
Loomis, W. F. and D. W. Smith (1995). "Consensus phylogeny of Dictyostelium." Experientia 51: 1110-1115.
	
Lilly, P. J. and P. N. Devreotes (1995). "Chemoattractant and GTPgammaS-mediated stimulation of adenylyl cyclase in Dictyostelium requires translocation of CRAC to membranes." J. Cell Biol. 129: 1659-1665.
	
Lee, S. F. and G. P. Cote (1995). "Purification and characterization of a Dictyostelium protein kinase required for actin activation of the Mg2+ ATPase activity of Dictyostelium myosin ID." J. Biol. Chem. 270: 11776-11782.
	
Lecroisey, A., et al. (1995). "Phosphorylation mechanism of nucleoside diphosphate kinase: P-31-nuclear magnetic resonance studies." Biochemistry 34: 12445-12450.
	
Kuwayama, H., et al. (1995). "Aberrant cGMP-binding activity in non-chemotactic Dictyostelium discoideum mutants." Biochim. Biophys. Ascta 1268: 214-220.
	
Kuspa, A., et al. (1995). "Analysis of gene function in Dictyostelium." Experientia 51: 1116-1123.
	
Kumimoto, H., et al. (1995). "RNA polymerase II transcribes Dictyostelium untranslatable gene, dutA, specifically in the developmental phase." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 216: 273-278.
	
Kuma, K., et al. (1995). "Phylogenetic position of Dictyostelium inferred from multiple protein data sets." J. Mol. Evol. 41: 238-246.
	
Kubohara, Y., et al. (1995). "Differentiation-inducing factor of D. discoideum raises intracellular calcium concentration and suppresses cell growth in rat pancreatic AR42J cells." FEBS Lett. 359: 119-122.
	
Kubohara, Y., et al. (1995). "Putative morphogen, DIF, of Dictyostelium discoideum induces apoptosis in rat pancreatic AR42J cells." Devel. Growth Differ. 37: 711-716.
	
Kubohara, Y. (1995). "Zinc ions promote prestalk-to-stalk and prespore-to-stalk conversions in Dictyostelium discoideum." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 134: 15-18.
	
Kreitmeier, M., et al. (1995). "A talin homologue of Dictyostelium rapidly assembles at the leading edge of cells in response to chemoattractant." J. Cell Biol. 129: 179-188.
	
Kozarov, E., et al. (1995). "Characterization of FP21, a cytosolic glycoprotein from Dictyostelium." J. Biol. Chem. 270: 3022-3030.
	
Knecht, D. A. and E. Shelden (1995). "Three-dimensional localization of wild-type and myosin II mutant cells during morphogenesis of Dictyostelium." Dev. Biol. 170: 434-444.
	
Knecht, D. and K. M. Pang (1995). "Electroporation of Dictyostelium discoideum." Meth. Mol. Biol. 47: 321-330.
	
Kiyosawa, H., et al. (1995). "The replication origin position and its relationship to a negative trans-acting transcription regulator encoded by Dictyostelium discoideum nuclear plasmid Ddp1." Curr. Genet. 27: 479-485.
	
Kirk, J. A. E. (1995). Region specific expression of a Dictyostelium discoideum prestalk marker (EcmB). Milton Keynes (UK), Open University.
	
Kawabe, K. (1995). "Distribution of dictyostelid cellular slime molds in forest soils of Sweden." Bull. Jap. Soc. Microbial Ecol. 10: 115-118.
	
Jungbluth, A., et al. (1995). "Stress-induced tyrosine phosphorylation of actin in Dictyostelium cells and localization of the phosphorylation site to tyrosine-53 adjacent to the DNase I binding loop." FEBS Lett. 375: 87-90.
	
Jermyn, K. and J. Williams (1995). "Comparison of the Dictyostelium rasD and ecmA genes reveals two distinct mechanisms whereby an mRNA may become enriched in prestalk cells." Differentiation 58: 261-267.
	
Jay, P. Y. K. (1995). The biophysical mechanism of cell motility in Dictyostelium discoideum. St. Louis, MO, Washington University: 86.
	
Jay, P. Y., et al. (1995). "A mechanical function of myosin II in cell motility." J. Cell Sci. 108: 387-393.
	
Jaffe, L. F. (1995). Calcium waves and development. Calcium waves, gradients and oscillations. G. R. Bock and K. Ackrill. Chichester, John Wiley & Sons: 4-12.
	
Izu, L. T. and R. A. Spangler (1995). "A class of parametrically excited calcium oscillation detectors." Biophys. J. 68: 1621-1629.
	
Iwamoto, M., et al. (1995). "Mitochondrial ribosomal protein L11 gene of Dictyostelium discoideum resides not in the nuclear genome but in the mitochondrial genome." DNA Res. 2: 129-132.
	
Insall, R. (1995). "Glycogen synthase kinase and Dictyostelium development: Old pathways pointing in new directions?" Trends Genet. (TIG) 11: 37-39.
	
Iijima, N., et al. (1995). "A proteinous factor mediating intercellular communication during the transition of Dictyostelium cells from growth to differentiation." Zool. Sci. 12: 61-69.
	
Hug, C., et al. (1995). "Capping protein levels influence actin assembly and cell motility in Dictyostelium." Cell 81: 591-600.
	
Hopper, N. A., et al. (1995). "Protein kinase A is a positive regulator of spore coat gene transcription in Dictyostelium." Differentiation 58: 183-188.
	
Hofer, T., et al. (1995). "Cellular pattern formation during Dictyostelium aggregation." Physica D 85: 425-444.
	
Hofer, T., et al. (1995). "Dictyostelium discoideum: Cellular self-organization in an excitable biological medium." Proc. R. Soc. Lond. B 259: 249-257.
	
Hodgkinson, S. (1995). "GFP in Dictyostelium." Trends Genet. (TIG) 11: 327-328.
	
Ho, G. Y., et al. (1995). "Both the amino and carboxyl termini of Dictyostelium myosin essential light chain are required for binding to myosin heavy chain." J. Biol. Chem. 270: 27977-27981.
	
Ho, G. (1995). Structure-function studies of myosin essential light chain: use of Dictyostelium as a model system. Evanston, IL, Northwestern University: 141.
	
Higuchi, I., et al. (1995). "Self- and non-self-recognition in bisexual mating of Dictyostelium discoideum." Devel. Growth Differ. 37: 311-317.
	
He, X. Y. and M. Dembo (1995). "Modeling chemoattractant-elicited relocalization of myosin filaments in Dictyostelium." Biochem. Cell Biol. 73: 421-429.
	
Hauser, L. J., et al. (1995). "Dictyostelium discoideum contains a single-copy gene encoding a unique subtype of histone H1." Gene 154: 119-122.
	
Harwood, A. J., et al. (1995). "Glycogen synthase kinase 3 regulates cell fate in Dictyostelium." Cell 80: 139-148.
	
Haribabu, B. and R. P. Dottin (1995). Dictyostelium protein kinase 2. The protein kinase facts book: Protein-serine kinases. D. G. Hardie and S. K. Hanks. London, Ac. Press. 1.
	
Hanakam, F., et al. (1995). "The pH-sensitive actin-binding protein hisactophilin of Dictyostelium exists in two isoforms which both are myristoylated and distributed between plasma membrane and cytoplasm." J. Biol. Chem. 270: 596-602.
	
Hagiwara, H. (1995). "Dictyostelids from the northern part of Ibaraki Prefecture, Central Japan." Mem. Natl. Sci. Mus. Tokyo 28: 65-71.
	
Gunther, K. E., et al. (1995). "Fertilization in Dictyostelium: Pharmacological analyses and the presence of a substrate protein suggest protein kinase C is essential for gamete fusion." Exp. Cell Res. 220: 325-331.
	
Ginsburg, G. T., et al. (1995). "The regulation of Dictyostelium development by transmembrane signalling." J. Euk. Microbiol. 42: 200-205.
	
Giglione, C. and J. D. Gross (1995). "Anion effects on vesicle acidification in Dictyostelium." Biochem. Mol. Biol. Int. 36: 1057-1065.
	
Gerisch, G., et al. (1995). "Chemoattractant-controlled accumulation of coronin at the leading edge of Dictyostelium cells monitored using green fluorescent protein-coronin fusion protein." Curr. Biol. 5: 1280-1285.
	
Gauthier, M. L. (1995). Phosphotyrosine-containing proteins during spore germination of Dictyostelium discoideum. Windsor, ON (Canada), University of Windsor: 126.
	
Garant, M. J. (1995). ATP independent, and ATP dependent, proteolysis in the eucaryotic slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum AX3. Lowell, MA, University of Lowell: 152.
	
Futey, L. M., et al. (1995). "Structural analysis of myosin heavy chain kinase A from Dictyostelium - Evidence for a highly divergent protein kinase domain, an amino-terminal coiled-coil domain, and a domain homologous to the beta-subunit of heterotrimeric G proteins." J. Biol. Chem. 270: 523-529.
	
Fukui, Y. and S. Inoue (1995). "Chemotaxis, aggregation behavior, and foot formation in Dictyostelium discoideum amoeba controlled by microbeam uncaging of cyclic-AMP." Biol. Bull. 189: 198-199.
	
Freeze, H. H. and M. Ichikawa (1995). "Identification of N-acetylglucosamine-alpha-1-phosphate transferase activity in Dictyostelium discoideum: An enzyme that initiates phosphoglycosylation." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 208: 384-389.
	
Frank, S. A. (1995). "Mutual policing and repression of competition in the evolution of cooperative groups." Nature 377: 520-522.
	
Fontana, D. R. (1995). Ch. 4: Dictyostelium discoideum cohesion and adhesion. Principles of Cell Adhesion. P. D. Richardson and M. Steiner. Boca Raton, FL, CRC Press: 63-86.
	
Fisher, A. J., et al. (1995). "X-ray structures of the myosin motor domain of Dictyostelium discoideum complexed with MgADP.BeFx and MgADP.AlF4-." Biochemistry 34: 8960-8972.
	
Firtel, R. A. (1995). "Integration of signaling information in controlling cell-fate decisions in Dictyostelium." Genes Devel. 9: 1427-1444.
	
Fey, P., et al. (1995). "Green fluorescent protein production in the cellular slime molds Polysphondylium pallidum and Dictyostelium discoideum." Gene 165: 127-130.
	
Faix, J., et al. (1995). "pDcsA vectors for strictly regulated protein synthesis during early development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Plasmid 34: 148-151.
	
Estevez, A. M., et al. (1995). "Functional complementation of yeast phosphofructokinase mutants by the non-allosteric enzyme from Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 374: 100-104.
	
Escalante, R. and W. F. Loomis (1995). "Whole-mount in situ hybridization of cell-type-specific mRNAs in Dictyostelium." Dev. Biol. 171: 262-266.
	
Emslie, K. R., et al. (1995). "From virus to vaccine: developments using the simple eukaryote, Dictyostelium discoideum." Trends Microbiol. 3: 476-479.
	
Emslie, K. R., et al. (1995). "Expression of the rotavirus SA11 protein VP7 in the simple eukaryote Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Virol. 69: 1747-1754.
	
Edmonds, B. T., et al. (1995). "pH regulation of the F-actin binding properties of Dictyostelium elongation factor 1alpha." J. Biol. Chem. 270: 15222-15230.
	
Early, A., et al. (1995). "Evidence for positional differentiation of prestalk cells and for a morphogenetic gradient in Dictyostelium." Cell 83: 91-99.
	
Dunbar, A. J. and J. F. Wheldrake (1995). "Evidence for a developmentally regulated prespore-specific glutamine synthetase in the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Microbiology 141: 1125-1130.
	
Drayer, A. L., et al. (1995). "Mutation of an EF-hand Ca2+-binding motif in phospholipase C of Dictyostelium discoideum: inhibition of activity but no effect on Ca2+-dependence." Biochem. J. 311: 505-510.
	
Doring, V., et al. (1995). "The in vivo role of annexin VII (synexin): characterization of an annexin VII-deficient Dictyostelium mutant indicates an involvement in Ca2+-regulated processes." J. Cell Sci. 108: 2065-2076.
	
Doolittle, K. W., et al. (1995). "3D analysis of cell movement during normal and myosin-II-null cell morphogenesis in Dictyostelium." Dev. Biol. 167: 118-129.
	
de Maria, A. C., et al. (1995). "Cloning of a cDNA encoding a novel heat-shock protein from Dictyostelium discoideum." Gene 163: 163-164.
	
Daniel, J., et al. (1995). Dictyostelium ras genes. Guidebook to the small GTPases. M. Zerial and L. A. Huber. Oxford, UK, Oxford Univ. Press: 100-104.
	
Cubitt, A. B., et al. (1995). "Patterns of free calcium in multicellular stages of Dictyostelium expressing jellyfish apoaequorin." Development 121: 2291-2301.
	
Cox, D., et al. (1995). "Genetic deletion of ABP-120 alters the three-dimensional organization of actin filaments in Dictyostelium pseudopods." J. Cell Biol. 128: 819-835.
	
Cox, D. (1995). An in vivo analysis of the function of abp-120 in Dictyostelium amoebae using molecular genetics (actin binding protein). New York, NY, Yeshiva University: 254.
	
Coukell, B., et al. (1995). "Cloning and expression in Escherichia coli of a cDNA encoding a developmentally regulated Ca2+-binding protein from Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 362: 342-346.
	
Condeelis, J. (1995). "Elongation factor 1alpha, translation and the cytoskeleton." TIBS 20: 169-170.
	
Cole, R. A., et al. (1995). "Dictyostelium discoideum mitochondrial DNA encodes a NADH:ubiquinone oxidoreductase subunit which is nuclear encoded in other eukaryotes." J. Mol. Evol. 40: 616-621.
	
Cohen, C. J. (1995). Dictyostelium discoideum mutants with conditional defects in phagocytosis (endocytosis). New Haven, CT, Yale University: 140.
	
Clay, J. L., et al. (1995). "Initial cell-type choice in a simple eukaryote: cell-autonomous or morphogen-gradient dependent?" Dev. Biol. 172: 665-674.
	
Clarke, M. and R. H. Gomer (1995). "PSF and CMF, autocrine factors that regulate gene expression during growth and early development of Dictyostelium." Experientia 51: 1124-1134.
	
Chu, Q. (1995). On the mechanism of myosin II function in Dictyostelium discoideum as probed by fluorescent analog chemistry (muscle contraction). Evanston, IL, Northwestern University: 142.
	
Chen, T. L. L., et al. (1995). "Targeted disruption of the Dictyostelium myosin essential light chain gene produces cells defective in cytokinesis and morphogenesis." J. Cell Sci. 108: 3207-3218.
	
Chang, W. T., et al. (1995). "Trapping developmental promoters in Dictyostelium." Plasmid 34: 175-183.
	
Chandrasekhar, A., et al. (1995). "A mutation that depresses cGMP phosphodiesterase activity in Dictyostelium affects cell motility through an altered chemotactic signal." Dev. Biol. 169: 109-122.
	
Champion, A., et al. (1995). "Immunochemical, genetic and morphological comparison of fucosylation mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum." Microbiology 141: 785-797.
	
Cavender, J. C., et al. (1995). "Ecological distribution of cellular slime molds in forest soils of Germany." Bot. Helv. 105: 199-219.
	
Caterina, M. J., et al. (1995). "Occupancy of the Dictyostelium cAMP receptor, cAR1, induces a reduction in affinity which depends upon COOH-terminal serine residues." J. Biol. Chem. 270: 4418-4423.
	
Caterina, M. J., et al. (1995). "Agonist-induced loss of ligand binding is correlated with phosphorylation of cAR1, a G protein-coupled chemoattractant receptor from Dictyostelium." J. Biol. Chem. 270: 8667-8672.
	
Caterina, M. J. (1995). Activation and desensitization of the G protein-coupled chemoattractant receptor, cAR1, of Dictyostelium (Dictyostelium discoideum, chemotaxis). Baltimore, MD, The Johns Hopkins University: 114.
	
Casademunt-Torras, E. (1995). Molecular and genetic characterization of the prestalk-enriched D11 gene of Dictyostelium discoideum: a gene expressed preferentially in anterior-like cells is involved in modulation of cell adhesion during growth and development. Baltimore, MD, University of Maryland Baltimore County: 250.
	
Cao, J. G. and R. A. Firtel (1995). "Growth and developmental functions of a human immunodeficiency virus Tat-binding protein/26S protease subunit homolog from Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cell. Biol. 15: 1725-1736.
	
Bush, J. and J. Cardelli (1995). Dictyostelium discoideum Rab- and Rho-related proteins. Guidebook to the small GTPases. M. Zerial and L. A. Huber. Oxford, UK, Oxford Univ. Press: 385-390.
	
Burns, C. G., et al. (1995). "Expression of light meromyosin in Dictyostelium blocks normal myosin II function." J. Cell Biol. 130: 605-612.
	
Burns, C. G., et al. (1995). "Single-headed myosin II acts as a dominant negative mutation in Dictyostelium." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 92: 8244-8248.
	
Burdine, V. D. (1995). Analysis of the prestarvation response in Dictyostelium discoideum and its application as an inducible expression system. Oklahoma City, OK, The University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center: 147.
	
Burdine, V. and M. Clarke (1995). "Genetic and physiologic modulation of the prestarvation response in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Biol. Cell 6: 311-325.
	
Browning, D. D., et al. (1995). "Comparative analysis of chemotaxis in Dictyostelium using a radial bioassay method: Protein tyrosine kinase activity is required for chemotaxis to folate but not to cAMP." Cell. Signal. 7: 481-489.
	
Browning, D. D. and D. H. O'Day (1995). "G protein function during biomembrane fusion in Dictyostelium: Presence and importance of a Galphas subunit during fertilization and phagocytosis." Exp. Cell Res. 219: 709-716.
	
Browning, D. D. (1995). The regulation and function of GTP binding proteins during sexual development of Dictyostelium discoideum. Toronto, ON (Canada), University of Toronto: 176.
	
Brown, R. J., et al. (1995). Structure-activity relationships of four alkylated alendronate derivatives as inhibitors of bone resorption and as inhibitors of growth of Dictyostelium amoebae. Bone.
	
Briscoe, C. and R. A. Firtel (1995). "Intercellular signaling: A kinase for cell-fate determination?" Curr. Biol. 5: 228-231.
	
Bretschneider, T., et al. (1995). "Three-dimensional scroll waves of cAMP could direct cell movement and gene expression in Dictyostelium slugs." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 92: 4387-4391.
	
Brar, S. K. (1995). The purification, cloning and characterization of the cell adhesion molecule gp24 in Dictyostelium discoideum. Toronto, ON (Canada), University of Toronto: 226.
	
Bozzaro, S. and E. Ponte (1995). "Cell adhesion in the life cycle of Dictyostelium." Experientia 51: 1175-1188.
	
Bonner, J. T. and E. C. Cox (1995). "Pattern formation in dictyostelids." Semin. Dev. Biol. 6: 359-368.
	
Bonner, J. T., et al. (1995). "Development in one dimension: The rapid differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum in glass capillaries." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 92: 8249-8253.
	
Bonner, J. T. (1995). "Why does slug length correlate with speed during migration in Dictyostelium discoideum?" J. Biosci. 20: 1-6.
	
Blusch, J., et al. (1995). "Multiple signal transduction pathways regulate discoidin I gene expression in Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 58: 253-260.
	
Birney, M. A. and C. Klein (1995). "Cloning and expression of the alpha subunit of succinyl-CoA synthetase from Dictyostelium discoideum." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 319: 93-101.
	
Bermejo, B., et al. (1995). "Heterologous expression of the highly conserved acidic ribosomal phosphoproteins from Dictyosteliumm discoideum in Saccharomyces cerevisiae." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1263: 45-52.
	
Behrisch, A., et al. (1995). "The actin-binding protein hisactophilin binds in vitro to partially charged membranes and mediates actin coupling to membranes." Biochemistry 34: 15182-15190.
	
Bauerle, A. and R. Mutzel (1995). "Nucleotide sequence of the gene for ribosomal protein S17 from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1260: 223-226.
	
Barkalow, K. and J. H. Hartwig (1995). "The role of actin filament barbed-end exposure in cytoskeletal dynamics and cell motility." Biochem. Soc. Trans. 23: 451-456.
	
Barkalow, K. and J. H. Hartwig (1995). "Setting the pace of cell movement." Curr. Biol. 5: 1000-1002.
	
Auer, B., et al. (1995). "On the biological role of the nuclear polymerizing NAD(+): Protein(ADP-ribosyl) transferase (ADPRT): ADPRT from Dictyostelium discoideum and inactivation of the ADPRT gene in the mouse." Biochimie 77: 444-449.
	
Atkinson, P. R., et al. (1995). "Purification and preliminary characterization of dDAP, a novel dipeptidylaminopeptidase from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochemistry 34: 10827-10834.
	
Asahi, K. I., et al. (1995). "DIF-1, morphogen of Dictyostelium discoideum, induces the erythroid differentiation in murine and human leukemia cells." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 208: 1036-1039.
	
Araki, T. and Y. Maeda (1995). "Cell-cycle progression during the development of Dictyostelium discoideum and its relation to the subsequent cell-sorting in the multicellular structures." Devel. Growth Differ. 37: 479-485.
	
Angata, K., et al. (1995). "A group-I intron in the mitochondrial large-subunit ribosomal RNA-encoding gene of Dictyostelium discoideum: Same site localization in alga and in vitro self-splicing." Gene 153: 49-55.
	
Angata, K., et al. (1995). "Codon usage, genetic code and phylogeny of Dictyostelium discoideum mitochondrial DNA as deduced from a 7.3-kb region." Curr. Genet. 27: 249-256.
	
Aizawa, H., et al. (1995). "Identification, characterization, and intracellular distribution of cofilin in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 270: 10923-10932.
	
Aguado-Velasco, M. C. (1995). Characterization of cytoskeletal contraction in Dictyostelium discoideum (cell motility, myosin, acanthamoeba). Chicago, IL, The Herman M. Finch University of Health Sciences - The Chicago Medical School: 131.
	
Agarwal, A. K. (1995). Analysis of growth phase and prespore genes of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum (gene expression). Baltimore, MD, University of Maryland Baltimore County: 275.
	
Adessi, C., et al. (1995). "Identification of major proteins associated with Dictyostelium discoideum endocytic vesicles." J. Cell Sci. 108: 3331-3337.
	
Abe, F. and Y. Maeda (1995). "Specific expression of a gene encoding a novel calcium-binding protein, CAF-1, during transition of Dictyostelium cells from growth to differentiation." Devel. Growth Differ. 37: 39-48.
	
Zundorf, I. and T. Dingermann (1994). Expression of antithrombin III and alpha1-antitrypsin in D. discoideum. Eur. J. Pharmaceut. Sci.
	
Yumura, S. (1994). "Reorganization of actin and myosin II in Dictyostelium amoeba during stimulation by cAMP." Cell Struct. Funct. 18: 379-388.
	
Yumura, S. (1994). "Rapid translocation of myosin II in vegetative Dictyostelium amoebae during chemotactic stimulation by folic acid." Cell Struct. Funct. 19: 143-152.
	
Yuen, I. S. and R. H. Gomer (1994). "Cell density-sensing in Dictyostelium by means of the accumulation rate, diffusion coefficient and activity threshold of a protein secreted by starved cells." J. Theor. Biol. 167: 273-282.
	
Yoshida, H., et al. (1994). "Duta RNA functions as an untranslatable RNA in the development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Nucl. Acids Res. 22: 41-46.
	
Yoder, B. K., et al. (1994). "Identification of a new spore coat protein gene in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 163: 49-65.
	
Yoder, B. K. and D. D. Blumberg (1994). "The promoter of a gene encoding a novel Dictyostelium spore coat protein." Dev. Biol. 163: 38-48.
	
Yin, Y. Z., et al. (1994). "An autonomously propagating luciferase-encoding vector for Dictyostelium discoideum." Gene 150: 293-298.
	
Yin, Y. H., et al. (1994). "Dual regulation of the glycogen phosphorylase 2 gene of Dictyostelium discoideum: The effects of DIF-1, cAMP, NH3 and adenosine." Development 120: 1169-1178.
	
Yamada, Y. and K. Okamoto (1994). "Analysis of cellular interactions involved in differential control of prestalk genes in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 161: 296-301.
	
Xiong, X., et al. (1994). Inhibition of growth of Dictyostelium amoebae is dependent on the cellular uptake of bisphosphonates by pinocytosis. Bone Miner.
	
Wu, L. J., et al. (1994). "Cloning and targeted mutations of Galpha7 and Galpha8, two developmentally regulated G protein alpha-subunit genes in Dictyostelium." Mol. Biol. Cell 5: 691-702.
	
Wright, B. E. and R. J. Field (1994). "The tricarboxylic acid cycle in Dictyostelium discoideum - Two methods of analysis using the same data." J. Biol. Chem. 269: 19931-19932.
	
Wright, B. E. and K. R. Albe (1994). "Carbohydrate metabolism in Dictyostelium discoideum. 1. Model construction." J. Theor. Biol. 169: 231-241.
	
Williamson, B. D. and C. L. Rutherford (1994). "Enrichment-mediated PCR amplification of an unknown DNA fragment flanking a known sequence." Biotechniques 17: 670-672.
	
Williams, K. L. (1994). "Cellular slime molds: the simplest complex eukaryotes?" Victorian Naturalist (South Yarra) 111: 18-21.
	
Williams, J. and A. Morrison (1994). "Prestalk cell-differentiation and movement during the morphogenesis of Dictyostelium discoideum." Progr. Nucl. Acid Res. Mol. Biol. 47: 1-27.
	
Wilczynska, Z. and P. R. Fisher (1994). "Analysis of a complex plasmid insertion in a phototaxis-deficient transformant of Dictyostelium discoideum selected on a Micrococcus luteus lawn." Plasmid 32: 182-194.
	
Wessels, D., et al. (1994). "Three-dimensional dynamics of pseudopod formation and the regulation of turning during the motility cycle of Dictyostelium." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 27: 1-12.
	
Weeks, G. and C. J. Weijer (1994). "The Dictyostelium cell cycle and its relationship to differentiation. (Minireview)." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 124: 123-130.
	
Watson, N., et al. (1994). "The PsB glycoprotein complex is secreted as a preassembled precursor of the spore coat in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 107: 2567-2579.
	
Watson III, E. B. (1994). A developmentally regulated glycoprotein complex involved in spore formation in Dictyostelium discoideum. Columbia, MO, University of Missouri: 178.
	
Voith, G. and T. Dingermann (1994). Functional expression of muscarinic receptor subtypes in Dictyostelium discoideum: alternative ways in screening active substances. Eur. J. Pharmaceut. Sci.
	
Vicker, M. G. (1994). "The regulation of chemotaxis and chemokinesis in Dictyostelium amoebae by temporal signals and spatial gradients of cyclic AMP." J. Cell Sci. 107: 659-667.
	
Vasu, S. K. (1994). cDNA isolation and disruption of the major vault protein genes of Dictyostelium discoideum. Los Angeles, CA, University of California (UCLA): 124.
	
Vasieva, O. O., et al. (1994). "A model of Dictyostelium discoideum aggregation." J. Theor. Biol. 171: 361-368.
	
Vasiev, B. N., et al. (1994). "Simulation of Dictyostelium discoideum aggregation via reaction-diffusion model." Phys. Rev. Lett. 73: 3173-3176.
	
Van Houten, J. (1994). "Chemosensory transduction in eukaryotic microorganisms - trends for neuroscience?" Trends Neurosci. 17: 62-71.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M. (1994). "Intracellular adenosine 3',5'-phosphate formation is essential for down-regulation of surface adenosine 3',5'-phosphate receptors in Dictyostelium." Biochem. J. 303: 539-545.
	
van Es, S., et al. (1994). "Universal signals control slime mold stalk formation." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 91: 8219-8223.
	
van Es, S., et al. (1994). "Metabolic pathways for differentiation-inducing factor-1 and their regulation are conserved between closely related Dictyostelium species, but not between distant members of the family." Differentiation 58: 95-100.
	
Valkema, R. and P. J. M. van Haastert (1994). "A model for cAMP-mediated cGMP response in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Biol. Cell 5: 575-585.
	
Um, H. D. and C. Klein (1994). "Regulatory role of GDP in the phosphoenzyme formation of guanine nucleotide: specific forms of succinyl coenzyme A synthetase." J. Prot. Chem. 13: 177-185.
	
Uchiyama, S., et al. (1994). "Fluorescence in the migrating pseudoplasmodium of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium mucoroides." Cell Struct. Funct. 19: 159-164.
	
Traynor, D., et al. (1994). "Aberrant pattern formation in myosin heavy chain mutants of Dictyostelium." Development 120: 591-601.
	
Titus, M. A., et al. (1994). "Discovery of myosin genes by physical mapping in Dictyostelium." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 91: 9446-9450.
	
Tillner, J., et al. (1994). A simple cytotoxicity assay using the eucaryotic microorganism Dictyostelium discoideum. Eur. J. Pharmaceut. Sci.
	
Tillner, J., et al. (1994). "A simple cytotoxicity assay using the eucaryotic microorganism Dictyostelium discoideum." Pharmazie 49: 759-761.
	
Tepper, A. D., et al. (1994). "Investigation of the active site and the conformational stability of nucleoside diphosphate kinase by site-directed mutagenesis." J. Biol. Chem. 269: 32175-32180.
	
Temesvari, L., et al. (1994). "Characterization of lysosomal membrane proteins of Dictyostelium discoideum - A complex population of acidic integral membrane glycoproteins, Rab GTP-binding proteins, and vacuolar ATPase subunits." J. Biol. Chem. 269: 25719-25727.
	
Tao, Y. P., et al. (1994). "Nitric oxide regulation of glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase activity in Dictyostelium discoideum cells and lysates." Eur. J. Biochem. 224: 447-454.
	
Tang, Y. H. and H. G. Othmer (1994). "A G protein-based model of adaptation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Math. Biosci. 120: 25-76.
	
Takeuchi, I., et al. (1994). "Regulation of cell differentiation and pattern formation in Dictyostelium development." Int. J. Dev. Biol. 38: 311-320.
	
Tai, Y. S. (1994). Transcriptional regulatory elements of the phosphodiesterase gene of Dictyostelium discoideum. Logan, UT, Utah State University: 68.
	
Steck, T. L. and M. Lavasa (1994). "A general method for plasma membrane isolation by colloidal gold density shift." Anal. Biochem. 223: 47-50.
	
Spudich, J. A. (1994). "How molecular motors work." Nature 372: 515-518.
	
Springer, M. L., et al. (1994). "Stage-specific requirement for myosin II during Dictyostelium development." Development 120: 2651-2660.
	
Souza, G. M., et al. (1994). "Calcium uptake and gp80 messenger RNA destabilization follows cAMP receptor down regulation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell. Signal. 6: 883-895.
	
Soede, R. D. M., et al. (1994). "Extracellular cAMP can restore development in Dictyostelium cells lacking one, but not two subtypes of early cAMP receptors (cARs). Evidence for involvement of cAR1 in aggregative gene expression." Development 120: 1997-2002.
	
So, J. S. and G. Weeks (1994). "The effect of extracellular cyclic AMP on differentiation inducing factor (DIF)-dependant prestalk cell gene expression in monolayers of Dictyostelium is complex." Differentiation 56: 131-135.
	
Snaar-Jagalska, B. E. and P. J. M. van Haastert (1994). "G-protein assays in Dictyostelium." Meth. Enzymol. 237: 387-408.
	
Simon, I. and D. E. Olins (1994). "Higher-order association of extrachromosomal rDNA genes in Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Biol. Int. 18: 1091-1094.
	
Silvestra, M. L. Z., et al. (1994). "Constitutive overexpression of a CPI-anchored cell adhesion molecule in Dictyostelium discoideum cells." Braz. J. Med. Biol. Res. 27: 427-430.
	
Siegert, F., et al. (1994). "A gradient method for the quantitative analysis of cell movement and tissue flow and its application to the analysis of multicellular Dictyostelium development." J. Cell Sci. 107: 97-104.
	
Siegert, F. and O. Steinbock (1994). Spiralwellen organisieren die Entwicklung sozialer Amoben. Muster des Lebendigen. A. Deutsch. Wiesbaden, Germany, Vieweg, Verlag.
	
Sharpe, P. T. (1994). "Surface changes during growth and development of slime molds." Meth. Enzymol. 228: 334-344.
	
Schumann, G., et al. (1994). "Characterization of transcripts from the Dictyostelium discoideum retransposable genetic element DRE." Pharmazie 49: 923-925.
	
Schumann, G., et al. (1994). "Internally located and oppositely oriented polymerase II promoters direct convergent transcription of a line-like retroelement, the Dictyostelium repetitive element, from Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cell. Biol. 14: 3074-3084.
	
Schultz, J. E. and S. Klumpp (1994). "Cyclic GMP in lower forms." Adv. Pharmacol. 26: 285-303.
	
Schnitzler, G. R., et al. (1994). "Cloning and characterization of the G-box binding factor, an essential component of the developmental switch between early and late development in Dictyostelium." Genes Devel. 8: 502-514.
	
Schmidt, A., et al. (1994). Position-specific integration of a mobile genetic element in Dictyostelium. Eur. J. Pharmaceut. Sci.
	
Schlatterer, C., et al. (1994). "Challenge with high concentrations of cyclic AMP induces transient changes in the cytosolic free calcium concentration in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 107: 2107-2115.
	
Schlatterer, C., et al. (1994). "Calcium-sequestering organelles of Dictyostelium discoideum: Changes in element content during early development as measured by electron probe X-ray microanalysis." Cell Calcium 16: 101-111.
	
Saxe III, C. L. (1994). "Signals that make you different: receptor-mediated signal transduction in early development." Zygote 2: 179-183.
	
Saran, S., et al. (1994). "Intracellular free calcium level and its response to cAMP stimulation in developing Dictyostelium cells transformed with jellyfish apoaequorin cDNA." FEBS Lett. 337: 43-47.
	
Saran, S., et al. (1994). "The level of sequestered calcium in vegetative amoebae of Dictyostelium discoideum can predict post-aggregative cell fate." Differentiation 57: 163-169.
	
Sandona, D. and R. Bisson (1994). "Inhibition of the synthesis of a cytochrome-c-oxidase subunit isoform by antisense RNA." Eur. J. Biochem. 219: 1053-1061.
	
Sameshima, M., et al. (1994). "Novel actin rods appeared in spores of Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Struct. Funct. 19: 189-194.
	
Saito, T., et al. (1994). "Assignment of disulfide bonds in gp64, a putative cell-cell adhesion protein of Polysphondylium pallidum - Presence of Sushi domains in the cellular slime mold protein." J. Biol. Chem. 269: 28798-28802.
	
Sadiq, M., et al. (1994). "Developmental regulation of antisense-mediated gene silencing in Dictyostelium." Antisense Res. Devel. 4: 263-267.
	
Ruscetti, T., et al. (1994). "Clathrin heavy chain functions in sorting and secretion of lysosomal enzymes in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Biol. 126: 343-352.
	
Ruppel, K. M., et al. (1994). "Role of highly conserved lysine 130 of myosin motor domain - in vivo and in vitro characterization of site specifically mutated myosin." J. Biol. Chem. 269: 18773-18780.
	
Rosenfeld, S. S. and B. Rener (1994). "The gpq-rich segment of Dictyostelium myosin IB contains an actin binding site." Biochemistry 33: 2322-2328.
	
Rooney, E. K., et al. (1994). "Characterisation of an intracellular Ca2+ pump in Dictyostelium." Cell Calcium 16: 509-522.
	
Rogers, P. V., et al. (1994). "Disruption of glycogen phosphorylase gene expression in Dictyostelium - evidence for altered glycogen metabolism and developmental coregulation of the gene products." Differentiation 56: 1-12.
	
Rogers, M. J., et al. (1994). Alterations to the phosphonate groups of bisphosphonates decrease their potency as inhibitors of bone resorption and as inhibitors of Dictyostelium growth. Bone Miner.
	
Rogers, M. J., et al. (1994). "Inhibitory effects of bisphosphonates on growth of amoebae of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Bone Miner. Res. 9: 1029-1039.
	
Rogers, M. J., et al. (1994). A mutant strain of the slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum is resistant to the cellular effects of bisphosphonates. Bone Miner.
	
Rogers, M. J., et al. (1994). "Incorporation of bisphosphonates into adenine nucleotides by amoebae of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. J. 303: 303-311.
	
Rogers, M. J., et al. (1994). Structure-activity relationships of bisphosphonates in Dictyostelium discoideum, a novel model for identifying the cellular mechanisms of action of bisphosphonates. Bone Miner.
	
Rogers, M. J., et al. (1994). Simple bisphosphonates are metabolised into analogues of ATP by Dictyostelium amoebae and by extracts of human cells. Bone Miner.
	
Rogers, M. J., et al. (1994). Bisphosphonates appear to be metabolised by aminoacyl-tRNA synthetase enzymes in extracts of Dictyostelium amoebae and extracts of human cells. Bone Miner.
	
Richardson, D. L., et al. (1994). "Progression of an inductive signal activates sporulation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Development 120: 2891-2900.
	
Ren, X. F. (1994). A singular perturbation problem and its peaking solution. Twin Cities, MN, University of Minnesota: 53.
	
Rauch, G. and O. Moran (1994). "On the structure of mitochondrial porins an its homologies with bacterial porins." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 200: 908-915.
	
Powell-Coffman, J. A., et al. (1994). "A GBF-binding site and a novel AT element define the minimal sequences sufficient to direct prespore-specific expression in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cell. Biol. 14: 5840-5849.
	
Powell-Coffman, J. A. and R. A. Firtel (1994). "Characterization of a novel Dictyostelium discoideum prespore-specific gene, PspB, reveals conserved regulatory sequences." Development 120: 1601-1611.
	
Plyte, S. E. (1994). Ch. 8. Genetic approaches to protein kinase function in lower eukaryotes. Section 4. Signal transduction in slime mould. Protein Kinases. J. R. Woodgett. Oxford, IRL Press: 254-257.
	
Peterson, M. D. and M. A. Titus (1994). "F-actin distribution of Dictyostelium myosin I double mutants." J. Euk. Microbiol. 41: 652-657.
	
Ostrow, B. D., et al. (1994). "Expression of a myosin regulatory light chain phosphorylation site mutant complements the cytokinesis and developmental defects of Dictyostelium RMLC null cells." J. Cell Biol. 127: 1945-1955.
	
Nolta, K. V. and T. L. Steck (1994). "Isolation and initial characterization of the bipartite contractile vacuole complex from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 269: 2225-2233.
	
Nolta, K. V., et al. (1994). "Analysis of successive endocytic compartments isolated from Dictyostelium discoideum by magnetic fractionation." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1224: 237-246.
	
Nakao, H., et al. (1994). "Dictyostelium prespore-specific gene dp87 encodes a sorus matrix protein." J. Cell Sci. 107: 397-403.
	
Mukhopadhyay, S. and S. Chatterjee (1994). "Development of cellular slime mould, Dictyostelium discoideum treated with a carbamate pesticide." Indian J. Exp. Biol. 32: 465-469.
	
Morrison, A., et al. (1994). "Disruption of the gene encoding the EcmA, extracellular matrix protein of Dictyostelium alters slug morphology." Dev. Biol. 163: 457-466.
	
Morio, T., et al. (1994). "Cooperation of positively and negatively acting promoter elements determines prespore-specific transcription of Dp87 gene in Dictyostelium." Mech. Devel. 45: 59-72.
	
Morera, S., et al. (1994). "Refined x-ray structure of Dictyostelium discoideum nucleoside diphosphate kinase at 1.8 angstrom resolution." J. Mol. Biol. 243: 873-890.
	
Morera, S., et al. (1994). "Adenosine 5'-diphosphate binding and the active site of nucleoside diphosphate kinase." Biochemistry 33: 459-467.
	
Moon, B. C. (1994). Analysis of development using reverse genetics: studies with the UDP glucose pyrophosphorylase and a human Rac protein kinase homolog in Dictyostelium discoideum. New York, NY, City University of New York: 166.
	
Mauldin, S. K., et al. (1994). "Differential repair of UV damage in a developmentally regulated gene of Dictyostelium discoideum." Mutat. Res. 314: 187-198.
	
Marx, K. A., et al. (1994). "Alignment of (dA).(dT) homopolymer tracts in gene flanking sequences suggests nucleosomal periodicity in D. discoideum DNA." J. Biomol. Struct. Dyn. 12: 235-246.
	
Martinez-Costa, O. H., et al. (1994). "Purification and properties of phosphofructokinase from Dictyostelium discoideum." Eur. J. Biochem. 226: 1007-1017.
	
Marriott, G., et al. (1994). "Time-resolved delayed luminescence image microscopy using an europium ion chelate complex." Biophys. J. 67: 957-965.
	
Mann, S. K. O., et al. (1994). "Expression of cAMP-dependent protein kinase in prespore cells is sufficient to induce spore cell differentiation in Dictyostelium." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 91: 10561-10565.
	
Mann, S. K. O., et al. (1994). Cell biological, molecular genetic, and biochemical methods to examine Dictyostelium. Cell Biology - A Laboratory Handbook. J. E. Celis. San Diego, CA, Ac. Press: 412-451.
	
Manabe, R., et al. (1994). "Molecular cloning and the COOH-terminal processing of gp64, a putative cell-cell adhesion protein of the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium pallidum." J. Biol. Chem. 269: 528-535.
	
Mahal, B. and W. Nellen (1994). "Developmental regulation of DEAD box proteins and cloning of putative RNA helicase genes from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biol. Chem. H-S 375: 759-763.
	
Ma, W. (1994). Determination of the transcriptional start site and in vitro translation of the A11 mRNA in Dictyostelium mucoroides. Omaha, NE, University of Nebraska.
	
Lydan, M. A., et al. (1994). "Calmodulin function and calmodulin-binding proteins during autoactivation and spore germination in Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell. Signal. 6: 751-762.
	
Lydan, M. A., et al. (1994). "Stage-specific changes in protein phosphorylation during spore germination in Dictyostelium: Role of calmodulin." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 201: 430-435.
	
Lydan, M. A. and D. A. Cotter (1994). "Spore swelling in Dictyostelium is a dynamic process mediated by calmodulin." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 115: 137-142.
	
Luo, Q., et al. (1994). "Overexpression of a truncated cyclin B gene arrests Dictyostelium cell division during mitosis." J. Cell Sci. 107: 3105-3114.
	
Louis, J. M., et al. (1994). "The cAMP receptor CAR4 regulates axial patterning and cellular differentiation during late development of Dictyostelium." Genes Devel. 8: 2086-2096.
	
Loomis, W. F., et al. (1994). "Gene discovery in Dictyostelium." Genetic Engin. 16: 49-64.
	
Liu, G. and P. C. Newell (1994). "Regulation of myosin regulatory light chain phosphorylation via cyclic GMP during chemotaxis of Dictyostelium." J. Cell Sci. 107: 1737-1743.
	
Lilly, P. J. and P. N. Devreotes (1994). "Identification of CRAC, a cytosolic regulator required for guanine nucleotide stimulation of adenylyl cyclase in Dictyostelium." J. Biol. Chem. 269: 14123-14129.
	
Lilly, P. J. (1994). Activation of adenylyl cyclase in Dictyostelium: roles for the G protein beta-subunit and for CRAC, a novel component of the signal transduction pathway. Baltimore, MD, The Johns Hopkins University: 132.
	
Lewis, K. E. and D. H. O'Day (1994). "Cannibalistic sexual phagocytosis in Dictyostelium discoideum is modulated by adenosine via an A2-like receptor." Cell. Signal. 6: 217-222.
	
Lewis, K. E., et al. (1994). "Signal transduction during cannibalistic sexual phagocytosis: Calcium is not the trigger but GTP-binding protein function is essential." Cell. Signal. 6: 209-215.
	
Lewis, K. E. (1994). A study of sexual cannibalistic phagocytosis in Dictyostelium discoideum. Toronto, ON (Canada), University of Toronto: 165.
	
Levine, H. (1994). "Modeling spatial patterns in Dictyostelium." Chaos 4: 563-568.
	
Lee, R. J., et al. (1994). "Molecular genetic truncation analysis of filament assembly and phosphorylation domains of Dictyostelium myosin heavy chain." J. Cell Sci. 107: 2875-2886.
	
Leblanc-Straceski, J. M., et al. (1994). "Functional analysis of a cardiac myosin rod in Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 27: 313-326.
	
Larson, M. A., et al. (1994). "A mutant of Dictyostelium mucoroides lacking the sorocarp sheath and primary macrocyst wall." Trans. Amer. Microsc. Soc. 113: 200-210.
	
Kuspa, A. and W. F. Loomis (1994). "Transformation of Dictyostelium - Gene disruptions, insertional mutagenesis, and promoter traps." Meth. Mol. Genet. 3: 3-21.
	
Kuspa, A. and W. F. Loomis (1994). "REMI-RFLP mapping in the Dictyostelium genome." Genetics 138: 665-674.
	
Kubohara, Y. and K. Okamoto (1994). "Specific induction by zinc of Dictyostelium stalk cell differentiation." Exp. Cell Res. 214: 367-372.
	
Kubohara, Y. and K. Okamoto (1994). "Cytoplasmic Ca2+ and H+ concentrations determine cell fate in Dictyostelium discoideum." FASEB J. 8: 869-874.
	
Koonce, M. P., et al. (1994). "Molecular characterization of a cytoplasmic dynein from Dictyostelium." J. Euk. Microbiol. 41: 645-651.
	
Kooi, B. W. and S. A. L. M. Kooijman (1994). "The transient behaviour of food chains in chemostats." J. Theor. Biol. 170: 87-94.
	
Kobayashi, H., et al. (1994). "In vitro sulfation of glycoprotein with sulfotransferase from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biosci. Biotechnol. Biochem. 58: 576-577.
	
Klein, R., et al. (1994). "Chiral lumazines: preparation, properties, enantiomeric separation." Chirality 6: 564-571.
	
Kiyosawa, H., et al. (1994). "Compatible Dictyostelium mucoroides nuclear plasmids dmp1 and dmp2 both belong to the ddp1 plasmid family." Plasmid 31: 121-130.
	
Kiyosawa, H. (1994). Relationships among Dictyostelium plasmids and study of Ddp1 plasmid origin of replication. Logan, UT, Utah State University: 252.
	
Kishi, Y., et al. (1994). "Differential interference microscopy of intranuclear actin rods in Dictyostelium discoideum spores." Cytologia 59: 453-460.
	
Kim, J. Y. and P. N. Devreotes (1994). "Random chimeragenesis of G-protein-coupled receptors - Mapping the affinity of the cAMP chemoattractant receptors in Dictyostelium." J. Biol. Chem. 269: 28724-28731.
	
Killich, T., et al. (1994). "Cell movement and shape are non-random and determined by intracellular, oscillatory rotating waves in Dictyostelium amoebae." Biosystems 33: 75-87.
	
Khosla, M., et al. (1994). "RasG protein accumulation occurs just prior to amoebae emergence during spore germination in Dictyostelium discoideum." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 117: 293-298.
	
Kerr, S. J. (1994). "Frequency of recovery of myxomycetes from soils of the northern United States." Can. J. Bot. 72: 771-778.
	
Ken, R. and C. K. Singleton (1994). "Redundant regulatory elements account for the developmental control of a ribosomal protein gene of Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 55: 97-103.
	
Keller, T., et al. (1994). "A monoclonal antibody that interferes with the post-aggregation adhesion of Dictyostelium discoideum cells." FEBS Lett. 339: 119-123.
	
Kay, R. R. and R. H. Insall (1994). Ch. 2 - Dictyostelium discoideum. Embryos Color Atlas of Development. J. B. L. Bard, Wolfe: 23-34.
	
Kay, R. R. (1994). "Differentiation and patterning in Dictyostelium." Curr. Opin. Genet. Devel. 4: 637-641.
	
Kasbekar, D. P. (1994). "Nondegradative pisatin-resistance in Dictyostelium discoideum, Neurospora crassa, and Nectria haematococca: similarities and differences." J. Biosci. 19: 529-536.
	
Jungbluth, A., et al. (1994). "Strong increase in the tyrosine phosphorylation of actin upon inhibition of oxidative phosphorylation - correlation with reversible rearrangements in the actin skeleton of Dictyostelium cells." J. Cell Sci. 107: 117-125.
	
Jung, G. and J. A. Hammer III (1994). "The actin binding site in the tail domain of Dictyostelium myosin IC (myoC) resides within the glycine- and proline-rich sequence (tail homology region 2)." FEBS Lett. 342: 197-202.
	
Ji, X., et al. (1994). Studies on the cellular uptake of bisphosphonates by amoebae of the slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum. Bone Miner.
	
Jain, R. and R. H. Gomer (1994). "A developmentally regulated cell surface receptor for a density-sensing factor in Dictyostelium." J. Biol. Chem. 269: 9128-9136.
	
Jain, R. (1994). Cloning and characterization of CMF, a density sensing factor in Dictyostelium discoideum. Houston, TX, Rice University: 184.
	
Insall, R. H., et al. (1994). "Two cAMP receptors activate common signaling pathways in Dictyostelium." Mol. Biol. Cell 5: 703-711.
	
Insall, R., et al. (1994). "CRAC, a cytosolic protein containing a pleckstrin homology domain, is required for receptor and G protein-mediated activation of adenylyl cyclase in Dictyostelium." J. Cell Biol. 126: 1537-1545.
	
Hughes, J. E., et al. (1994). "Plasmid maintenance functions encoded on Dictyostelium discoideum nuclear plasmid Ddp1." Mol. Cell. Biol. 14: 6117-6124.
	
Howard, P. K., et al. (1994). "Regulation by protein-tyrosine phosphatase PTP2 is distinct from that by PTP1 during Dictyostelium growth and development." Mol. Cell. Biol. 14: 5154-5164.
	
Hori, R. and R. A. Firtel (1994). "Identification and characterization of multiple A/T-rich cis-acting elements that control expression from Dictyostelium actin promoters: The Dictyostelium actin upstream activating sequence confers growth phase expression and has enhancer-like properties." Nucl. Acids Res. 22: 5099-5111.
	
Hopper, N. A. and J. Williams (1994). "A role for cAMP-dependent protein kinase in determining the stability of prespore cell differentiation in Dictyostelium." Dev. Biol. 163: 285-287.
	
Hitt, A. L., et al. (1994). "Ponticulin is an atypical membrane protein." J. Cell Biol. 126: 1421-1431.
	
Hitt, A. L., et al. (1994). "Ponticulin is the major high affinity link between the plasma membrane and the cortical actin network in Dictyostelium." J. Cell Biol. 126: 1433-1444.
	
Hilson, J. A., et al. (1994). "Fruiting body architecture, spore capsule contents, selfishness, and heterocytosis in the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum." Ethol. Ecol. Evol. 6: 529-535.
	
Hereld, D., et al. (1994). "Localization of ligand-induced phosphorylation sites to serine clusters in the C-terminal domain of the Dictyostelium cAMP receptor, cAR1." J. Biol. Chem. 269: 7036-7044.
	
Henderson, E. J., et al. (1994). "Developmentally-regulated cell surface N-linked oligosaccharides participate in intercellular cohesion in Dictyostelium discoideum." Indian J. Biochem. Biophys. 30: 376-381.
	
Haugwitz, M., et al. (1994). "Dictyostelium amoebae that lack G-actin-sequestering profilins show defects in F-actin content, cytokinesis, and development." Cell 79: 303-314.
	
Harwood, A. (1994). Sense and sense ability. Signal transduction: prokaryotic and simple eukaryotic systems. Trends Cell Biol. 4: 228-229.
	
Hammer III, J. A. (1994). "Regulation of Dictyostelium myosin II by phosphorylation: What is essential and what is important?" J. Cell Biol. 127: 1779-1782.
	
Hallgren, C. and O. Hindsgaul (1994). "Synthesis of octyl 2-O-alpha-D-mannopyranosyl-alpha-D-mannopyranoside, its 6'-phosphate and the corresponding monomethyl phosphodiester: Intermediate structures in the biosynthesis of N-linked oligosaccharides in Dictyostelium discoidium.  Dictyostelium discoideum." Carbohydr. Res. 260: 63-71.
	
Hagiwara, H. (1994). "Dictyostelids in Hokkaido, Japan, II. Altitudinal distribution of dictyostelids on Mt. Shari-dake." Mem. Natl. Sci. Mus. Tokyo 27: 37-41.
	
Hadwiger, J. A., et al. (1994). "The Galpha subunit Galpha4 couples to pterin receptors and identifies a signaling pathway that is essential for multicellular development in Dictyostelium." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 91: 10566-10570.
	
Hader, D. P. and M. Lebert (1994). "Analysis of photoreceptor proteins of microorganisms by gradient gel electrophoresis and other biochemical separation methods." Electrophoresis 15: 1051-1061.
	
Guhl, B. and U. P. Roos (1994). "Microtubule centers and the interphase microtubule cytoskeleton in amoebae of the cellular slime molds (mycetozoans) Acytostelium leptosomum and Protostelium mycophaga." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 28: 45-58.
	
Gross, J. D. (1994). "Developmental decisions in Dictyostelium discoideum." Microbiol. Rev. 58: 330-351.
	
Grebecki, A. (1994). "Membrane and cytoskeleton flow in motile cells with emphasis on the contribution of free-living amoebae." Int. Rev. Cytol. 148: 37-80.
	
Gomer, R. H. (1994). "Knowing that you're among friends." Curr. Biol. 4: 734-735.
	
Gerisch, G., et al. (1994). Mutational analysis of carbohydrate and phospholipid modifications of a cell adhesion protein. Colloquium Mosbach 1993 Glyco and cell biology: biosynthesis, transport, and function of glycoconjugates. F. Wieland and W. Reutter. Berlin, Springer-Verlag. 44: 131-144.
	
Gee, K., et al. (1994). "Ammonia hypersensitivity of slugger mutants of D. discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 107: 701-708.
	
Gayatri, R. and S. Chatterjee (1994). "Growth and development of cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum treated with DDT." Environ. Poll. 86: 135-140.
	
Gayatri, R. and S. Chatterjee (1994). "Pinocytic stimulation in Dictyostelium discoideum by gamma-benzene hexachloride." J. Cell. Physiol. 158: 523-526.
	
Gayatri, R. and S. Chatterjee (1994). "Morphogenesis of Dictyostelium discoideum treated with lindane." Bull. Env. Contam. Toxicol. 52: 871-877.
	
Gaskins, C., et al. (1994). "Identification and functional analysis of a developmentally regulated extracellular signal-regulated kinase gene in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cell. Biol. 14: 6996-7012.
	
Gadagkar, R. and J. T. Bonner (1994). "Social insects and social amoebae." J. Biosci. 19: 219-245.
	
Furukawa, T. and Y. Maeda (1994). "K252a, a potent inhibitor of protein kinases, promotes the transition of Dictyostelium cells from growth to differentiation." Zool. Sci. 11: 69-76.
	
Furukawa, R. and M. Fechheimer (1994). "Differential localization of alpha-actinin and the 30 kD actin-bundling protein in the cleavage furrow, phagocytic cup, and contractile vacuole of Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 29: 46-56.
	
Fosnaugh, K., et al. (1994). "Structural roles of the spore coat proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 166: 823-825.
	
Ferguson, T. A., et al. (1994). "The differentiation of a cell sorting mutant of Dictyostelium discoideum." Devel. Growth Differ. 36: 597-604.
	
Feit, I. N. (1994). "Cell prints on the surface of the slug of Dictyostelium discoideum: a Nessler-positive matrix substance." Dev. Biol. 164: 345-360.
	
Fechheimer, M., et al. (1994). "Association of the Dictyostelium 30 kDa actin bundling protein with contact regions." J. Cell Sci. 107: 2393-2401.
	
Farrar, N. A., et al. (1994). "Nucleotide sequence of ddp1, a high copy number nuclear plasmid of Dictyostelium discoideum." Plasmid 31: 184-195.
	
Dynes, J. L., et al. (1994). "LagC is required for cell-cell interactions that are essential for cell-type differentiation in Dictyostelium." Genes Devel. 8: 948-958.
	
Dynes, J. L. (1994). The role of LagC in the development of Dictyostelium discoideum. La Jolla, University of California, San Diego (UCSD): 184.
	
Dunbar, A. J. and J. F. Wheldrake (1994). "A calcium and calmodulin-dependent protein kinase present in differentiating Dictyostelium discoideum." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 115: 113-118.
	
Drayer, A. L. and P. J. M. van Haastert (1994). "Transmembrane signalling in eukaryotes: A comparison between higher and lower eukaryotes." Plant Mol. Biol. 26: 1239-1270.
	
Drayer, A. L., et al. (1994). "Role of phospholipase C in Dictyostelium: formation of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate and normal development in cells lacking phospholipase C activity." EMBO J. 13: 1601-1609.
	
Dittrich, W., et al. (1994). "Production and secretion of recombinant proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biotechnol. 12: 614-618.
	
Dingermann, T. (1994). Functional receptor expression in Dictyostelium discoideum. Germany, Dingermann,T. De19934313933: 14 claims.
	
Dharmawardhane, S., et al. (1994). "Regulatory role of the Galpha1 subunit in controlling cellular morphogenesis in Dictyostelium." Development 120: 3549-3561.
	
Devreotes, P. N. (1994). "G protein-linked signaling pathways control the developmental program of Dictyostelium." Neuron 12: 235-241.
	
Detterbeck, S., et al. (1994). "The 'prespore-like cells' of Dictyostelium have ceased to express a prespore gene: Analysis using short-lived beta-galactosidases as reporters." Development 120: 2847-2855.
	
Desbarats, L., et al. (1994). "Involvement of cell-cell adhesion in the expression of the cell cohesion molecule gp80 in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 107: 1705-1712.
	
Desbarats, L. (1994). The regulation of expression of the cell adhesion molecule gp80 in Dictyostelium discoideum. Toronto, ON (Canada), University of Toronto: 173.
	
Deering, R. A. (1994). "Dictyostelium discoideum, a lower eukaryote model for the study of DNA repair: implications for the role of DNA-damaging chemicals in the evolution of repair proficient cells." Adv. Space Res. 14: 389-393.
	
Dayton, L. (1994). Super vaccine crawls out of the slime. New Scientist. 142, no. 1930: 22.
	
Davies, E., et al. (1994). Pulsed magnetic fields affect oscillations of the adenylate cyclase enzyme system in Dictyostelium discoideum, athermally. Biochem. Soc. Trans.
	
Darcy, P. K., et al. (1994). "Genetic analysis of Dictyostelium slug phototaxis mutants." Genetics 137: 977-985.
	
Darcy, P. K., et al. (1994). "The role of cGMP in photosensory and thermosensory transduction in Dictyostelium discoideum." Microbiology 140: 1619-1632.
	
Daniel, J. M. (1994). Isolation and characterization of three novel Dictyostelium Ras genes: evidence for a unique, developmentally regulated Ras gene family (Dictyostelium discoideum). Vancouver, BC (Canada), The University of British Columbia: 171.
	
Daniel, J., et al. (1994). "Isolation of two novel ras genes in Dictyostelium discoideum - evidence for a complex, developmentally regulated ras gene subfamily." Oncogene 9: 501-508.
	
Cornillon, S., et al. (1994). "Programmed cell death in Dictyostelium." J. Cell Sci. 107: 2691-2704.
	
Cole, R. A. and K. L. Williams (1994). "The Dictyostelium discoideum mitochondrial genome: A primordial system using the universal code and encoding hydrophilic proteins atypical of metazoan mitochondrial DNA." J. Mol. Evol. 39: 579-588.
	
Cohen, C. J., et al. (1994). "Dictyostelium discoideum mutants with conditional defects in phagocytosis." J. Cell Biol. 126: 955-966.
	
Chen, P. X., et al. (1994). "Targeted disruption of the Dictyostelium RMLC gene produces cells defective in cytokinesis and development." J. Cell Biol. 127: 1933-1944.
	
Chen, M. Y., et al. (1994). "Serine 113 is the site of receptor-mediated phosphorylation of the Dictyostelium G protein alpha-subunit Galpha2." J. Biol. Chem. 269: 20925-20930.
	
Chandrasekhar, A. (1994). Regulation of dedifferentiation and cell motility in Dictyostelium discoideum. Iowa City, IA, The University of Iowa: 267.
	
Caterina, M. J., et al. (1994). "Mutation of the third intracellular loop of the cAMP receptor, cAR1, of Dictyostelium yields mutants impaired in multiple signaling pathways." J. Biol. Chem. 269: 1523-1532.
	
Carrel, F., et al. (1994). "Spatial and temporal expression of the Dictyostelium discoideum Galpha protein subunit Galpha2 - expression of a dominant negative protein inhibits proper prestalk to stalk differentiation." Mol. Biol. Cell 5: 7-16.
	
Bush, J., et al. (1994). "Molecular cloning and characterization of the full-length cDNA encoding the developmentally regulated lysosomal enzyme beta-glucosidase in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 269: 1468-1476.
	
Bush, J., et al. (1994). "A Rab4-like GTPase in Dictyostelium discoideum colocalizes with V-H+-ATPases in reticular membranes of the contractile vacuole complex and in lysosomes." J. Cell Sci. 107: 2801-2812.
	
Bukenberger, M., et al. (1994). "Isolation of transcription factor IIIc from Dictyostelium discoideum." Eur. J. Biochem. 220: 839-846.
	
Breen, E. J. and K. L. Williams (1994). "Optical flow analysis of the ventral cellular layer of the migrating Dictyostelium discoideum slug." Microbiology 140: 1241-1252.
	
Bozzone, D. M. (1994). "An experimental system to study cell differentiation." J. College Sci. Teaching (JCST) 23: 363-366.
	
Bonner, J. T. (1994). "The migration stage of Dictyostelium: behavior without muscles or nerves. (minireview)." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 120: 1-8.
	
Bonner, J. and J. Williams (1994). "Inhibition of cAMP-dependent protein kinase in Dictyostelium prestalk cells impairs slug migration and phototaxis." Dev. Biol. 164: 325-327.
	
Bonfils, C., et al. (1994). "Expression and characterization of a Dictyostelium discoideum annexin." Mol. Cell. Biochem. 139: 159-166.
	
Bominaar, A. A. and P. J. M. van Haastert (1994). "Phospholipase C activity in Dictyostelium discoideum using endogenous nonradioactive phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate as substrate." Meth. Enzymol. 238: 207-218.
	
Bominaar, A. A. and P. J. M. van Haastert (1994). "Phospholipase C in Dictyostelium discoideum - identification of stimulatory and inhibitory surface receptors and G-proteins." Biochem. J. 297: 189-193.
	
Bominaar, A. A., et al. (1994). "Phospholipase C in Dictyostelium discoideum - cyclic AMP surface receptor and G-protein-regulated activity in vitro." Biochem. J. 297: 181-187.
	
Blusch, J. H. and W. Nellen (1994). "Folate responsiveness during growth and development of Dictyostelium - separate but related pathways control chemotaxis and gene regulation." Mol. Microbiol. 11: 331-335.
	
Bichler, G. and C. J. Weijer (1994). "A Dictyostelium anterior-like cell mutant reveals sequential steps in the prespore prestalk differentiation pathway." Development 120: 2857-2868.
	
Barth, A., et al. (1994). "Replacement of the phospholipid-anchor in the contact site A glycoprotein of D. discoideum by a transmembrane region does not impede cell adhesion but reduces residence time on the cell surface." J. Cell Biol. 124: 205-215.
	
Bacon, R. A., et al. (1994). "Dictyostelium discoideum mutants with temperature-sensitive defects in endocytosis." J. Cell Biol. 127: 387-399.
	
Bacon, R. A. (1994). Isolation and characterization of a temperature-sensitive endocytosis mutant, indy1, from Dictyostelium discoideum. New Haven, CT, Yale University: 167.
	
Arkin, A. and J. Ross (1994). "Computational functions in biochemical reaction networks." Biophys. J. 67: 560-578.
	
Araki, T., et al. (1994). "Cell-cycle-dependent sorting in the development of Dictyostelium cells." Dev. Biol. 162: 221-228.
	
Albe, K. R. and B. E. Wright (1994). "Carbohydrate metabolism in Dictyostelium discoideum. 2. Systems' analysis." J. Theor. Biol. 169: 243-251.
	
Agarwal, P. (1994). "Simulation of aggregation in Dictyostelium using the cell programming language." Comput. Appl. Biosci. 10: 647-655.
	
Agarwal, A., et al. (1994). "Analysis of a novel cyclic AMP inducible prespore gene in Dictyostelium discoideum: Evidence for different patterns of cAMP regulation." Differentiation 57: 151-162.
	
Adames, N. R., et al. (1994). "Regulation of expression of the cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase gene in phosphodiesterase inhibitor-negative mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Cell Biol. 72: 233-238.
	
Adachi, H., et al. (1994). "Isolation of Dictyostelium discoideum cytokinesis mutants by restriction enzyme-mediated integration of the blasticidin S resistance marker." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 205: 1808-1814.
	
Abe, T., et al. (1994). "Patterns of cell movement within the Dictyostelium slug revealed by cell type-specific, surface labeling of living cells." Cell 77: 687-699.
	
Abe, F. and Y. Maeda (1994). "Precise expression of the cAMP receptor gene, car1, during transition from growth to differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 342: 239-241.
	
Zimmerman, W. and C. J. Weijer (1993). "Analysis of cell cycle progression during the development of Dictyostelium and its relationship to differentiation." Dev. Biol. 160: 178-185.
	
Zhu, Q. L., et al. (1993). "Calmodulin and the contractile vacuole complex in mitotic cells of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 104: 1119-1127.
	
Yumura, S. and T. Kitanishi-Yumura (1993). "A mechanism for the intracellular localization of myosin-II filaments in the Dictyostelium amoeba." J. Cell Sci. 105: 233-242.
	
Yoshida, M., et al. (1993). "Carbohydrate structures of the cell adhesion molecule, contact site-A, from Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 318: 305-309.
	
Yoder, B. K. (1993). The molecular characterization of a cyclic AMP inducible prespore specific gene and its protein product in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum (gene regulation, polyclonal antibodies). Baltimore, MD, University of Maryland, Baltimore county: 290.
	
Yin, Y. (1993). Molecular mechanism of glycogen phosphorylase gene regulation during Dictyostelium development (Dictyostelium discoideum). Blacksburg, VA, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University: 132.
	
Wu, L., et al. (1993). Signal transduction by G-proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum. GTPases in Biology, II. B. F. Dickey and L. Birnbaumer. New York, Springer. 108: 335-349.
	
Witke, W., et al. (1993). "The Ca2+-binding domains in non-muscle type alpha-actinin - biochemical and genetic analysis." J. Cell Biol. 121: 599-606.
	
Williams, K. L. and G. H. Joss (1993). The hardware and software of morphogenesis: studies with the Dictyostelium discoideum slug, a simple tissue. Experimental and theoretical advances in biological pattern formation (NATO ASI series A, Life Sciences). H. G. Othmer, P. K. Maini and J. D. Murray. New York, Plenum. 259: 345-354.
	
Williams, J. G., et al. (1993). "Regulation of Dictyostelium morphogenesis by cAMP-dependent protein kinase." Phil. Trans. R. Soc. Lond. B 340: 305-313.
	
Williams, J., et al. (1993). "Interacting signalling pathways regulating prestalk cell differentiation and movement during the morphogenesis of Dictyostelium." Development Suppl.: 1-7.
	
Wetterauer, B. W., et al. (1993). "Use of a transactive regulatory mutant of Dictyostelium discoideum in a eucaryotic expression system." Nucl. Acids Res. 21: 1397-1401.
	
Wetterauer, B., et al. (1993). "Mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum with defects in the regulation of discoidin-I expression." Dev. Biol. 159: 184-195.
	
Weiner, O. H., et al. (1993). "The actin-binding protein comitin (p24) is a component of the Golgi apparatus." J. Cell Biol. 123: 23-34.
	
Watson, N., et al. (1993). "A developmentally regulated glycoprotein complex from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 268: 22634-22641.
	
Vicker, M. G. (1993). Cells into slugs: oscillatory temporal signals, taxis, and morphogenesis in Dictyostelium discoideum. Oscillations and Morphogenesis. L. Rensing. New York, M. Dekker: 153-166.
	
Vasu, S. K., et al. (1993). "cDNA cloning and disruption of the major vault protein-alpha gene (mvpA) in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 268: 15356-15360.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M. and P. N. Devreotes (1993). Biochemistry and genetics of sensory transduction in Dictyostelium. Signal transduction: prokaryotic and simple eukaryotic systems. J. Kurjan and B. L. Taylor. San Diego, Ac. Press: 329-352.
	
Vadell, E. M. (1993). Taxonomy, ecology and karyotypes of the cellular slime molds of Tikal, Guatemala. Athens, OH, Ohio University: 213.
	
Uyeda, T. Q. P. and J. A. Spudich (1993). "A functional recombinant myosin-II lacking a regulatory light chain binding site." Science 262: 1867-1870.
	
Urrutia, R. A., et al. (1993). "The Dictyostelium myosin-IE heavy chain gene encodes a truncated isoform that lacks sequences corresponding to the actin binding site in the tail." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1173: 225-229.
	
Umeda, T. (1993). "A thermodynamical model of cell distributions in the slug of cellular slime mold." Bull. Math. Biol. 55: 451-464.
	
Um, H. D. and C. Klein (1993). "Evidence for allosteric regulation of succinyl-CoA synthetase." Biochem. J. 295: 821-826.
	
Um, H. D. (1993). Allosteric regulation of succinyl-CoA synthetase phosphorylation. St. Louis, MO, Saint Louis University: 124.
	
Uchiyama, S., et al. (1993). "Localization of fluorescent substances in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum cells during growth and decvelopment." J. Plant Res. 106: 345-349.
	
Tyler, M. S. (1993). "Slime molds for the classroom." Maine Naturalist 1(2): 41-47.
	
Troll, H., et al. (1993). "Separate nuclear genes encode cytosolic and mitochondrial nucleoside diphosphate kinase in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 268: 25469-25475.
	
Troll, H. (1993). Gip17 and Guk: die zytosolische und die mitochondriale Nukleossoddiphosphatkinase aus Dictyostelium discoideum., Univ. Konstanz: 97.
	
Trivinos-Lagos, L., et al. (1993). "The highly divergent alpha-tubulins and beta-tubulins from Dictyostelium discoideum are encoded by single genes." J. Cell Sci. 105: 903-911.
	
Titus, M. A., et al. (1993). "The unconventional myosin encoded by the myoA gene plays a role in Dictyostelium motility." Mol. Biol. Cell 4: 233-246.
	
Tiltscher, H. and M. Storr (1993). "Immobilization of the slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum for the continuous production of recombinant human antithrombin III." Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 40: 246-250.
	
Temesvari, L. A. (1993). Studies of trehalose metabolism in Dictyostelium discoideum: the role of trehalose in stress management and the purification of trehalase (enzyme purification). Windsor, ON (Canada), University of Windsor: 286.
	
Tatischeff, I., et al. (1993). Dictyostelium discoideum, a new eukaryotic model for analyzing cell resistance. Biol. Cell.
	
Tatischeff, I., et al. (1993). Carcinogenic benzo(e)pyrene and non-carcinogenic benzo(e)pyrene discriminated by Dictyostelium discoideum cells through internalization. Polycyclic Aromatic Compounds, PAH XIII. P. Garrigues and M. Lamotte. Switzerland, Gordon and Breach Science Publ.: 695-702.
	
Tatischeff, I. and F. Lavialle (1993). "Immunological evidence of a P-glycoprotein in the microorganism Dictyostelium." C.R. Acad. Sc. Paris, Serie C 316: 560-563.
	
Tao, Y. P., et al. (1993). "Endogenous ADP-ribosylation of glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase that is not regulated by nitric oxide in Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell. Signal. 5: 763-775.
	
Tang, Y. (1993). Theoretical studies on second messenger dynamics (Dictyostelium discoideum, signal transduction, cAMP). Salt Lake City, UT, The University of Utah: 277.
	
Takao, M., et al. (1993). "A 127 kDa component of a UV-damaged DNA-binding complex, which is defective in some Xeroderma pigmentosum group-E patients, is homologous to a slime mold protein." Nucl. Acids Res. 21: 4111-4118.
	
Sutoh, K. (1993). "A transformation vector for Dictyostelium discoideum with a new selectable marker bsr." Plasmid 30: 150-154.
	
Sucic, J. F., et al. (1993). "Regulation of the Dictyostelium glycogen phosphorylase 2 gene by cyclic AMP." Dev. Genet. 14: 313-322.
	
Sucic, J. F., et al. (1993). "Developmental and cAMP-mediated regulation of glycogen phosphorylase 1 in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 139: 3043-3052.
	
Stephens, L., et al. (1993). "The detection, purification, structural characterization, and metabolism of diphosphoinositol pentakisphosphate(s) and bisdiphospho-inositol tetrakisphosphate(s)." J. Biol. Chem. 268: 4009-4015.
	
Steinbock, O., et al. (1993). "Three-dimensional waves of excitation during Dictyostelium morphogenesis." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 90: 7332-7335.
	
Springer, W. R. and P. L. Haywoodreid (1993). "Antibodies specific for gp40 inhibit cell-cell adhesion by cross-linking the protein on the surface of Dictyostelium purpureum." J. Cell. Biochem. 53: 85-97.
	
Springer, W. R. (1993). Identifying cell-cell adhesion-inhibitory antibodies to cell surface proteins using divalent primary and monovalent secondary antibodies - a method developed using cellular slime molds. Lectins and Glycobiology. H. J. Gabius and S. Gabius. Berlin, Heidelberg, Springer-Verlag: 433-440.
	
Sordano, C., et al. (1993). "Platelet activating factor modulates signal transduction in Dictyostelium." J. Cell Sci. 104: 197-202.
	
Sonnemann, J., et al. (1993). "Elongation in a Dictyostelium in vitro translation system is affected by calmodulin antagonists." FEBS Lett. 329: 183-188.
	
Soll, D. R., et al. (1993). Ch. 28: The motile behavior of amoebae in the aggregation wave in Dictyostelium discoideum. Experimental and Theoretical Advances in Biological Pattern Formation. H. G. Othmer, P. K. Maini and J. D. Murray. New York, Plenum Press. 259: 325-344.
	
Soede, R. D. M., et al. (1993). A pharmacological approach to identify hormone signalling pathways controlling gene regulation in Dictyostelium. New developments in lipid-protein interactions and receptor function. (NATO ASI Series A, Life Sciences). K. W. A. Wirtz, L. Packer, J. A. Gustafsson, A. E. Evangelopoulos and J. P. Changeux. New York, Plenum Press: 87-101.
	
Smith, F. X. (1993). Non-enzymatic preparation of ubiquitin-protein conjugates with ubiquitin-K active ester and its in vivo implications (isoxazolium). Lowell, MA, University of Lowell: 164.
	
Siegert, F. and C. J. Weijer (1993). The role of periodic signals in the morphogenesis of Dictyostelium discoideum. Oscillations and Morphogenesis. L. Rensing. New York, M. Dekker: 133-152.
	
Shiraishi, F. and M. A. Savageau (1993). "The tricarboxylic acid cycle in Dictyostelium discoideum - systemic effects of including protein turnover in the current model." J. Biol. Chem. 268: 16917-16928.
	
Shi, N. Q. and R. Thornburg (1993). "Construction of a UMP synthase expression cassette from Dictyostelium discoideum." Gene 127: 199-202.
	
Shaw, D. R. and H. L. Ennis (1993). "Molecular cloning and developmental regulation of Dictyostelium discoideum homologues of the human and yeast HIV1 tat-binding protein." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 193: 1291-1296.
	
Shaulsky, G. and W. F. Loomis (1993). "Cell type regulation in response to expression of ricin-A in Dictyostelium." Dev. Biol. 160: 85-98.
	
Schwandner, W. R. E., et al. (1993). "Chemotactic stimulation of aggregation-stage Dictyostelium cells induces rapid changes in energy metabolism, as measured by succinic thiokinase phosphorylation." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1176: 175-182.
	
Schroder, R. R., et al. (1993). "Three-dimensional atomic model of F-actin decorated with Dictyostelium myosin-S1." Nature 364: 171-174.
	
Schofield, J. P. (1993). "Molecular studies on an ancient gene encoding for carbamoyl-phosphate synthetase." Clin. Sci. 84: 119-128.
	
Schnitzler, G. R. (1993). Characterization, purification and cloning of the G-box binding factor, a cAMP-responsive transcription factor required for late-developmental gene activation in Dictyostelium (Dictyostelium discoideum). La Jolla, CA, University of California, San Diego (UCSD): 158.
	
Schmidt, S. and J. F. Wheldrake (1993). "Accumulation of unsulphated precursors in Dictyostelium discoideum during selenate inhibition of growth." Mol. Cell. Biochem. 126: 109-114.
	
Schlatterer, C. and D. Malchow (1993). "Intracellular guanosine-5'-0-(3-thiotriphosphate) blocks chemotactic motility of Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 25: 298-307.
	
Scherczinger, C. and D. A. Knecht (1993). "Systematic analysis of antisense RNA inhibition of myosin II heavy-chain gene expression in Dictyostelium discoideum." Antisense Res. Devel. 3: 191-205.
	
Schauer, T. M., et al. (1993). "Proteasomes from Dictyostelium discoideum: characterization of structure and function." J. Struct. Biol. 111: 135-147.
	
Schatzle, J., et al. (1993). "Characterization of the signal transduction pathways and cis-acting DNA sequence responsible for the transcriptional induction during growth and development of the lysosomal alpha-mannosidase gene in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 268: 19632-19639.
	
Schaap, P. and M. Wang (1993). Ch. 26: Four signals to shape a slime mold. Experimental and Theoretical Advances in Biological Pattern Formation. H. G. Othmer, P. K. Maini and J. D. Murray. New York, Plenum Press. 259: 301-318.
	
Schaap, P., et al. (1993). "Cell-permeable non-hydrolyzable cAMP derivatives as tools for analysis of signaling pathways controlling gene regulation in Dictyostelium." J. Biol. Chem. 268: 6323-6331.
	
Schaap, P., et al. (1993). Gene regulation by hormone-like signals in Dictyostelium. Signal transduction: prokaryotic and simple eukaryotic systems. J. Kurjan and B. L. Taylor. San Diego, Ac. Press: 353-376.
	
Saxe III, C. L., et al. (1993). "CAR2, a prestalk cAMP receptor required for normal tip formation and late development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Genes Devel. 7: 262-272.
	
Sameshima, M. (1993). "Disappearance of the surface sheath from Dictyostelium discoideum sorus during late culmination." Cytologia 58: 361-366.
	
Saito, T. and H. Ochiai (1993). "Evidence for a glycolipid anchor of gp64, a putative cell-cell adhesion protein of Polysphondylium pallidum." Eur. J. Biochem. 218: 623-628.
	
Saito, T., et al. (1993). "A purification method and N-glycosylation sites of a 36-cysteine-containing, putative cell/cell adhesion glycoprotein gp64 of the cellular slime mold, Polysphondylium pallidum." Eur. J. Biochem. 211: 147-155.
	
Rodriguez-Paris, J. M., et al. (1993). "Characterization of lysosomes isolated from Dictyostelium discoideum by magnetic fractionation." J. Biol. Chem. 268: 9110-9116.
	
Rizzuto, R., et al. (1993). "Structure of the promoter region of the gene encoding cytochrome-c oxidase subunit-V in Dictyostelium." Eur. J. Biochem. 211: 411-414.
	
Ritchie, M. D., et al. (1993). "Kinetic characterization of a cytoplasmic myosin motor domain expressed in Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 90: 8619-8623.
	
Riley, G. R., et al. (1993). "Cell differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum controls assembly of protein-linked glycans." Glycobiology 3: 165-178.
	
Reimers, J. M., et al. (1993). "Purification and kinetic characterization of glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase from Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Mycol. 17: 1-6.
	
Rebstein, P. J., et al. (1993). "Altered morphology of vegetative amoebae induced by increased expression of the Dictyostelium discoideum ras-related gene rap1." Dev. Genet. 14: 347-355.
	
Ramalingam, R., et al. (1993). "Cloning and functional expression of a Dictyostelium discoideum protein tyrosine phosphatase." J. Biol. Chem. 268: 22680-22685.
	
Rama, R. A. (1993). The role of calcium, calmodulin and the visualization of calmodulin binding proteins during sexual development in the homothallic Dictyostelium strains AC4 and ZA3a. Toronto, ON (Canada), University of Toronto: 140.
	
Powell-Coffman, J. A. and R. A. Firtel (1993). "Cellular dedifferentiation and spore germination in Dictyostelium may utilize similar regulatory pathways." Bioessays 15: 131-133.
	
Powell-Coffman, J. A. (1993). Regulation of prespore-specific transcription in Dictyostelium discoideum (transcription). La Jolla, CA, University of California, San Diego (UCSD): 164.
	
Pitt, G. S., et al. (1993). "Extracellular cAMP is sufficient to restore developmental gene expression and morphogenesis in Dictyostelium cells lacking the aggregation adenylyl cyclase (ACA)." Genes Devel. 7: 2172-2180.
	
Pitt, G. S. (1993). Structurally distinct and stage specific adenylyl cyclase genes play different roles in Dictyostelium development (aggregation stage). Baltimore, MD, The Johns Hopkins University: 54.
	
Parnell, L. D. (1993). Cloning and characterization of a serine/threonine protein kinase of Dictyostelium discoideum, with a phylogenetic analysis of serine/threonine and tyrosine protein kinases. Madison, WI, The University of Wisconsin - Madison: 496.
	
Papavinasasundaram, K. G. and D. P. Kasbekar (1993). "Pisatin resistance in Dictyostelium discoideum and Neurospora crassa - comparison of mutant phenotypes." J. Gen. Microbiol. 139: 3035-3041.
	
Padh, H., et al. (1993). "A post-lysosomal compartment in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 268: 6742-6747.
	
Ozaki, T., et al. (1993). "Developmental regulation of transcription of a novel prespore-specific gene (Dp87) in Dictyostelium discoideum." Development 117: 1299-1308.
	
Ostrow, B. D. (1993). Conventional type II myosin in Dictyostelium discoideum: testing the role of light chain phosphorylation in vivo. Evanston, IL, Northwestern University: 141.
	
Olins, A. L. and D. E. Olins (1993). "Stereo-electron microscopy of DNA-stained mitotic chromosomes from Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Biol. Int. 17: 941-944.
	
Nolta, K. V., et al. (1993). "An immunocytochemical analysis of the vacuolar proton pump in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 105: 849-859.
	
Nolta, K. V. (1993). The distribution of vacuolar proton ATPase in endomembrane compartments of Dictyostelium discoideum. Chicago, IL, The University of Chicago: 260.
	
Niebling, K. R. (1993). Purification and characterization of a 270 kilodalton actin-binding protein from Dictyostelium that localizes to the centrosome (Dictyostelium discoideum). Stanford, CA, Stanford University: 134.
	
Newell, P. C., et al. (1993). Genetic map of Dictyostelium. Genetic maps: locus maps of complex genomes. (6th edition). S. J. O'Brien. Cold Spring Harbor, CSH Lab. Press: 3.1-3.10.
	
Muller, S. C. (1993). Spatial patterns in chemical reactions. Oscillations and Morphogenesis. L. Rensing. New York, M. Dekker: 57-79.
	
Morris, P. J. (1993). "The developmental role of the extracellular matrix suggests a monophyletic origin of the kingdom Animalia." Evolution 47: 152-165.
	
Milne, J. L. and P. N. Devreotes (1993). "The surface cyclic AMP receptors, cAR1, cAR2, and cAR3, promote Ca2+ influx in Dictyostelium discoideum by a Galpha2-independent mechanism." Mol. Biol. Cell 4: 283-292.
	
Michaelis, C. and G. Weeks (1993). "The isolation from a unicellular organism, Dictyostelium discoideum, of a highly-related cdc2 gene with characteristics of the PCTAIRE subfamily." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1179: 117-124.
	
Menniti, F. S., et al. (1993). "Inositol phosphates and cell signaling: new views of InsP5 and InsP6." TIBS 18: 53-56.
	
Medley, Q. G. (1993). Studies on Dictyostelium myosin heavy chain kinase A (phosphorylation). Kingston, ON (Canada), Queen's University at Kingston: 209.
	
McPherson, C. E. and C. K. Singleton (1993). "Nutrient-responsive promoter elements of the V4 gene of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Mol. Biol. 232: 386-396.
	
Marx, K. A., et al. (1993). "Characteristics of the large (dA)(dT) homopolymer tracts in D. discoideum gene flanking and intron sequences." J. Biomol. Struct. Dyn. 11: 57-66.
	
Marschalek, R., et al. (1993). "Different organization of the transfer RNA-gene-associated repetitive element, DRE, in NC4-derived strains and in other wild-type Dictyostelium discoideum strains." Eur. J. Biochem. 217: 627-631.
	
Manstein, D. J. (1993). "Myosin function in the motile behaviour of cells." Symp. Soc. Exp. Biol. 47: 283-295.
	
Mann, S. K. O. and R. A. Firtel (1993). "cAMP-dependent protein kinase differentially regulates prestalk and prespore differentiation during Dictyostelium development." Development 119: 135-146.
	
Maeda, Y. (1993). "Pattern formation in a cell-cycle dependent manner during the development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Devel. Growth Differ. 35: 609-616.
	
Maeda, M. and Y. Kubohara (1993). "Protein phosphorylation during the process of prestalk-to-stalk conversion in Dictyostelium discoideum." Devel. Growth Differ. 35: 561-568.
	
Lydan, M. A. and D. H. O'Day (1993). "Calmodulin-dependent phosphorylation and dephosphorylation during fertilization in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 192: 1073-1078.
	
Lydan, M. A. and D. H. O'Day (1993). "Calmodulin and calmodulin-binding proteins during cell fusion in Dictyostelium discoideum: developmental regulation by calcium ions." Exp. Cell Res. 205: 134-141.
	
Lydan, M. A. and D. H. O'Day (1993). Signal transduction and cell fusion in Dictyostelium: calcium, calmodulin, and an endogenous inhibitor. Signal transduction during biomembrane fusion. D. H. O'Day. San Diego, Ac. Press: 245-263.
	
Lydan, M. A. (1993). Calmodulin and its binding proteins during fertilization in Dictyostelium. Toronto, ON (Canada), University of Toronto: 164.
	
Louis, J. M., et al. (1993). "Two transmembrane signaling mechanisms control expression of the cAMP receptor gene CAR1 during Dictyostelium development." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 90: 5969-5973.
	
Loomis, W. F. (1993). "Lateral inhibition and pattern formation in Dictyostelium." Curr. Topics Dev. Biol. 28: 1-46.
	
Liu, G. and P. C. Newell (1993). "Role of cyclic GMP in signal transduction to cytoskeletal myosin." Symp. Soc. Exp. Biol. 47: 283-295.
	
Liu, G., et al. (1993). "The role of cyclic GMP in regulating myosin during chemotaxis of Dictyostelium - evidence from a mutant lacking the normal cyclic GMP response to cyclic AMP." J. Cell Sci. 106: 591-596.
	
Lilly, P., et al. (1993). "A G-protein beta-subunit is essential for Dictyostelium development." Genes Devel. 7: 986-995.
	
Lee, S. F. and G. P. Cote (1993). "Isolation and characterization of three Dictyostelium myosin-I isozymes." J. Biol. Chem. 268: 20923-20929.
	
Lascu, I., et al. (1993). "Equilibrium dissociation and unfolding of nucleoside diphosphate kinase from Dictyostelium discoideum - role of proline 100 in the stability of the hexameric enzyme." J. Biol. Chem. 268: 20268-20275.
	
Labrousse, A. and M. Satre (1993). "Photodynamic killing of Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae mediated by 4',5'-diiodofluorescein isothiocyanate dextran - a strategy for the isolation of thermoconditional endocytosis mutants." Photochem. Photobiol. 57: 531-537.
	
Labrousse, A., et al. (1993). "Phototoxicity of halogenofluorescein derivatives in Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae: comparison of 2',4',5',7'-tetrabromofluorescein- and 4',5'-diiodofluorescein dextran." J. Gen. Microbiol. 139: 841-845.
	
Kuwayama, H., et al. (1993). "Non-chemotactic Dictyostelium discoideum mutants with altered cGMP signal transduction." J. Cell Biol. 123: 1453-1462.
	
Kubohara, Y., et al. (1993). "Differanisole A, an inducer of the differentiation of Friend leukemic cells, induces stalk cell differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 322: 73-75.
	
Kubohara, Y. and K. Okamoto (1993). "DIF-resistant expression of a prespore-specific gene in Dictyostelium in vitro development." Exp. Cell Res. 204: 382-384.
	
Kubohara, Y., et al. (1993). "Analysis of the maturation process of prestalk cells in Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Cell Res. 207: 107-114.
	
Kubohara, Y. (1993). "Purification and properties of a stalk-specific wheat germ agglutinin binding protein, Dr-st36, in the cellular slime mould, Dictyostelium rosarium." Compar. Biochem. Physiol. 105B: 87-90.
	
Kofler, B., et al. (1993). "Purification and characterization of NAD+:ADP-ribosyltransferase (polymerizing) from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. J. 293: 275-281.
	
Knecht, D., et al. (1993). "Bidirectional transcription from actin promoters in Dictyostelium." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1216: 105-109.
	
Kiyosawa, H., et al. (1993). "Small circular plasmids of the eukaryote Dictyostelium purpureum define two novel plasmid families." Plasmid 30: 106-118.
	
Killich, T., et al. (1993). "The locomotion, shape and pseudopodial dynamics of unstimulated Dictyostelium cells are not random." J. Cell Sci. 106: 1005-1013.
	
Kessler, D. A. and H. Levine (1993). "Pattern formation in Dictyostelium via the dynamics of cooperative biological entities." Phys. Rev. E 48: 4801-4804.
	
Kelly, B. J. (1993). DNA repair and the Dictyostelium discoideum cell-cycle (heat shock proteins). University Park, PA, The Pennsylvania State University (Penn State): 159.
	
Kay, R. R., et al. (1993). "A localized differentiation-inducing-factor sink in the front of the Dictyostelium slug." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 90: 487-491.
	
Kawai, S., et al. (1993). "Promotion of zygote formation by protein kinase inhibitors during the sexual development of Dictyostelium mucoroides." Devel. Growth Differ. 35: 601-607.
	
Kaiser, D. (1993). "Roland Thaxter's legacy and the origins of multicellular development." Genetics 135: 249-254.
	
Jung, G., et al. (1993). "Sequence, expression pattern, intracellular localization, and targeted disruption of the Dictyostelium myosin ID heavy chain isoform." J. Biol. Chem. 268: 14981-14990.
	
Joly, E., et al. (1993). "Addition of heat-killed bacteria to the selective medium enhances transformation of Dictyostelium discoideum." Trends Genet. (TIG) 9: 157-158.
	
Johnson, R. L., et al. (1993). "Identification and targeted gene disruption of cAR3, a cAMP receptor subtype expressed during multicellular stages of Dictyostelium development." Genes Devel. 7: 273-282.
	
Johnson, J. D., et al. (1993). "A receptor tyrosine kinase found in breast carcinoma cells has an extracellular discoidin I-like domain." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 90: 5677-5681.
	
Johara, M., et al. (1993). "Charge-reversion mutagenesis of Dictyostelium actin to map the surface recognized by myosin during ATP-driven sliding motion." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 90: 2127-2131.
	
Jensen, B. R. (1993). Studies of the role of intracellular cAMP in development and cell-fate and the characterization of a novel protein kinase in Dictyostelium discoideum. Madison, WI, The University of Wisconsin - Madison: 186.
	
Jay, P. Y., et al. (1993). "Studies of mechanical aspects of amoeboid locomotion." Blood Cells 19: 375-388.
	
Janson, L. W. and D. L. Taylor (1993). "In vitro models of tail contraction and cytoplasmic streaming in amoeboid cells." J. Cell Biol. 123: 345-356.
	
Jalink, K., et al. (1993). "Lysophosphatidic acid is a chemoattractant for Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 90: 1857-1861.
	
Itakura, S., et al. (1993). "Force-generating domain of myosin motor." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 196: 1504-1510.
	
Inouye, K. and J. Gross (1993). "In vitro stalk cell differentiation in wild-type and slugger mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum." Development 118: 523-526.
	
Hudson, J. W., et al. (1993). "Evolution of allosteric control in glycogen phosphorylase." J. Mol. Biol. 234: 700-721.
	
Howard, P. K., et al. (1993). "Tyrosine phosphorylation of actin in Dictyostelium associated with cell-shape changes." Science 259: 241-244.
	
Hori, R. T. (1993). Regulation of actin growth-phase expression in Dictyostelium. La Jolla, CA, University of California, San Diego (UCSD): 133.
	
Hopper, N. A., et al. (1993). "Activation of the prespore and spore cell pathway of Dictyostelium differentiation by cAMP-dependent protein kinase and evidence for its upstream regulation by ammonia." EMBO J. 12: 2459-2466.
	
Hopper, N. A., et al. (1993). "Induction of terminal differentiation of Dictyostelium by cAMP-dependent protein kinase and opposing effects of intracellular and extracellular cAMP on stalk cell differentiation." Development 119: 147-154.
	
Hong, J. S. and N. K. Chang (1993). "Cellular slime molds of Halla Mountain. IV. Description of polar granule negative species." Korean J. Bot. 36: 9-17.
	
Hoja, U., et al. (1993). "Nucleotide sequence of a Dictyostelium discoideum gene encoding a protein homologous to the yeast ribosomal protein-S31." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 190: 134-139.
	
Hofmann, J., et al. (1993). "The Dictyostelium discoideum 5S rDNA is organized in the same transcriptional orientation as the other rDNAs." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 191: 558-564.
	
Hofmann, A., et al. (1993). "The 100 kDa F-actin capping protein of Dictyostelium amoebae is a villin prototype (protovillin)." FEBS Lett. 328: 71-76.
	
Heuser, J., et al. (1993). "Proton pumps populate the contractile vacuoles of Dictyostelium amoebae." J. Cell Biol. 121: 1311-1327.
	
Haynes, P. A., et al. (1993). "Post-translational modifications of the Dictyostelium discoideum glycoprotein PsA - glycosylphosphatidylinositol membrane anchor and composition of O-linked oligosaccharides." Eur. J. Biochem. 216: 729-737.
	
Haus, U., et al. (1993). "The heat shock cognate protein from Dictyostelium affects actin polymerization through interaction with the actin-binding protein cap32/34." EMBO J. 12: 3763-3771.
	
Hasegawa, M., et al. (1993). "Early branchings in the evolution of eukaryotes: ancient divergence of entamoeba that lacks mitochondria revealed by protein sequence data." J. Mol. Evol. 36: 380-388.
	
Harwood, A. J., et al. (1993). "A repressor controls the timing and spatial localisation of stalk cell-specific gene expression in Dictyostelium." Development 118: 1041-1048.
	
Hall, A. L., et al. (1993). "The role of the cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase of Dictyostelium discoideum during growth, aggregation, and morphogenesis: overexpression and localization studies with the separate promoters of the pde." Dev. Biol. 157: 73-84.
	
Hagiwara, H. (1993). Altitudinal distributions of dictyostelids in the alpine zone of Mt. Gilipur in the Nanga Parbat Range, Pakistan. Cryptogamic Flora of Pakistan. T. Nakaike and S. Malik. Tokyo, Japan, National Science Museum. 2: 19-24.
	
Gunther, K. E. K. (1993). Protein kinase C is a positive mediator of biomembrane fusion in Dictyostelium discoideum. Toronto, ON (Canada), University of Toronto: 121.
	
Goldbeter, A. and G. Dupont (1993). Wavelike propagation of cAMP and Ca2+ signals: link with excitability and oscillations. Oscillations and Morphogenesis. L. Rensing. New York, M. Dekker: 195-209.
	
Goc, T. J. (1993). Identification and characterization of surface-exposed cytoskeletally-associated glycoproteins that may play a role as phagocytosis receptors in Dictyostelium discoideum. Lincoln, NE, Univ. Nebraska: 62.
	
Glasheen, J. S. (1993). Anhydrobiosis in embryos of the brine shrimp Artemia franciscana: mechanisms of metabolic control. Boulder, CO, University of Colorado at Boulder: 106.
	
Gingell, D. (1993). "Contact signalling and cell motility." Symp. Soc. Exp. Biol. 47: 1-33.
	
Gerisch, G., et al. (1993). "Actin-associated proteins in motility and chemotaxis of Dictyostelium cells." Soc. Exp. Biol. Symp. 47: 297-315.
	
Gayatri, R. and S. Chatterjee (1993). "Phosphatase activities in pesticide-treated growing and developing cells of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Appl. Toxicol. 13: 297-300.
	
Gayatri, R. and S. Chatterjee (1993). "Phagocytic activity of Dictyostelium amoebae treated with an organochlorine pesticide." Cell Biol. Int. 17: 349-352.
	
Fukuzawa, M. and H. Ochiai (1993). "Different subcellular localizations of discoidin-I monomer and tetramer in Dictyostelium discoideum cells, using conformation-specific monoclonal antibodies." Exp. Cell Res. 204: 61-72.
	
Fukuzawa, M. and H. Ochiai (1993). "Spatiotemporal patterning of Discoidin-I and Discoidin-II during development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Devel. Growth Differ. 35: 11-24.
	
Fukui, Y. (1993). "Toward a new concept of cell motility: cytoskeletal dynamics in amoeboid movement and cell division." Int. Rev. Cytol. 144: 85-127.
	
Fuchs, M., et al. (1993). "Characterisation of an epithelium-like layer of cells in the multicellular Dictyostelium discoideum slug." J. Cell Sci. 105: 243-253.
	
Francis, D. and R. Eisenberg (1993). "Genetic structure of a natural population of Dictyostelium discoideum, a cellular slime mold." Mol. Ecol. 2: 385-392.
	
Fosnaugh, K. L. and W. F. Loomis (1993). "Enhancer regions responsible for temporal and cell-type-specific expression of a spore coat gene in Dictyostelium." Dev. Biol. 157: 38-48.
	
Fontana, D. R. (1993). "Two distinct adhesion systems are responsible for EDTA-sensitive adhesion in Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 53: 139-147.
	
Fok, A. K., et al. (1993). "Vacuolar H+-ATPase of Dictyostelium discoideum - a monoclonal antibody study." J. Cell Sci. 106: 1103-1113.
	
Flaadt, H., et al. (1993). "Cyclic AMP-induced and Ins(1,4,5)P3-induced Ca(2+)fluxes in permeabilised cells of Dictyostelium discoideum - cGMP regulates Ca(2+) entry across the plasma membrane." J. Cell Sci. 105: 255-261.
	
Flaadt, H., et al. (1993). "Evidence for two intracellular calcium pools in Dictyostelium: the cAMP-induced calcium influx is directed into a NBD-Cl- and 2,5-di-(tert-butyl)-1,4-hydroquinone-sensitive pool." J. Cell Sci. 105: 1131-1135.
	
Fechheimer, M. and R. Furukawa (1993). "A 27,000-D-core of the Dictyostelium 34,000-D-protein retains Ca2+-regulated actin cross-linking but lacks bundling activity." J. Cell Biol. 120: 1169-1176.
	
Fang, H., et al. (1993). "Molecular cloning and characterization of 2 genes encoding gp138, a cell surface glycoprotein involved in the sexual cell fusion of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 156: 201-208.
	
Fang, H., et al. (1993). "Antisense RNA inactivation of gp138 gene expression results in repression of sexual cell fusion in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 106: 785-788.
	
Eliott, S., et al. (1993). "Patterns in Dictyostelium discoideum - the role of myosin-II in the transition from the unicellular to the multicellular phase." J. Cell Sci. 104: 457-466.
	
Eitle, E., et al. (1993). "Polysaccharides influence the aggregation of Dictyostelium discoideum cells and bind to developmentally regulated cell surface proteins." Exp. Cell Res. 205: 374-382.
	
Egelhoff, T. T., et al. (1993). "Dictyostelium myosin heavy chain phosphorylation sites regulate myosin filament assembly and localization in vivo." Cell 75: 363-371.
	
Edmonds, B. T. (1993). "ABP50: an actin-binding elongation factor 1alpha from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell. Biochem. 52: 134-139.
	
Eddy, R. J., et al. (1993). "Aginactin, an agonist-regulated F-actin capping activity is associated with an hsc70 in Dictyostelium." J. Biol. Chem. 268: 23267-23274.
	
Early, A. E., et al. (1993). "Two distinct populations of prestalk cells within the tip of the migratory Dictyostelium slug with differing fates at culmination." Development 118: 353-362.
	
Dixon, B. (1993). "A slime mould comes good." Med. Sci. 21: 300.
	
de Hostos, E. L., et al. (1993). "Dictyostelium mutants lacking the cytoskeletal protein coronin are defective in cytokinesis and cell motility." J. Cell Biol. 120: 163-173.
	
de Hostos, E. L., et al. (1993). "Coactosin, a 17-kDa F-actin binding protein from Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 26: 181-191.
	
Davies, L., et al. (1993). "The target of ammonia action in Dictyostelium." Cell 75: 321-327.
	
Darcy, P. K., et al. (1993). "Phototaxis genes on linkage group V in Dictyostelium discoideum." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 111: 123-127.
	
Daniel, J., et al. (1993). "Characterization of a third ras gene, rasB, that is expressed throughout the growth and development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Oncogene 8: 1041-1047.
	
Cubitt, A. B., et al. (1993). "Developmentally regulated changes in 1,2-diacylglycerol in Dictyostelium - Regulation by light and G proteins." J. Biol. Chem. 268: 17431-17439.
	
Cressman, C. M. (1993). Purification and subcellular distribution of ubiquitin as a function of stress and development in Dictyostelium discoideum. Lowell, MA, University of Lowell: 155.
	
Cox, E. C. (1993). Periodic spatial patterns in the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium pallidum. Oscillations and Morphogenesis. L. Rensing. New York, M. Dekker: 437-452.
	
Condeelis, J. (1993). "Understanding the cortex of crawling cells: insights from Dictyostelium." Trends Cell Biol. 3: 371-376.
	
Chugani, D. C., et al. (1993). "Evidence that vault ribonucleoptrotein particles localize to the nuclear pore complex." J. Cell Sci. 106: 23-29.
	
Chia, C. P., et al. (1993). "The integral membrane protein, ponticulin, acts as a monomer in nucleating actin assembly." J. Cell Biol. 120: 909-922.
	
Cheney, R. E., et al. (1993). "Phylogenetic analysis of the myosin superfamily." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 24: 215-223.
	
Cavender, J. C., et al. (1993). "Response of soil dictyostelid slime molds to agricultural disturbance in a tropical environment." Biotropica 25: 245-248.
	
Cardelli, J. A. (1993). Regulation of lysosomal trafficking and function during growth and development of Dictyostelium discoideum. Endosomes and lysosomes: a dynamic relationship. B. Storrie and R. F. Murphy, JAI Press (Elsevier). 1: 341-390.
	
Bush, J., et al. (1993). "Cloning and characterization of five novel Dictyostelium discoideum Rab-related genes." Gene 136: 55-60.
	
Bush, J., et al. (1993). "Cloning and characterization of seven novel Dictyostelium discoideum Rac-related genes belonging to the Rho family of GTPases." Gene 136: 61-68.
	
Bush, J. and J. Cardelli (1993). "Molecular cloning and DNA sequence of a Dictyostelium cDNA encoding a ran/TC4 related GTP binding protein belonging to the ras superfamily." Nucl. Acids Res. 21: 1675.
	
Buhl, B., et al. (1993). "Cell sorting within the prespore zone of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 156: 481-489.
	
Brydolf, B. (1993). The Myb gene in Dictyostelium (Dictyostelium discoideum). La Jolla, CA, University of California, San Diego (UCSD): 155.
	
Browning, D. D., et al. (1993). "The regulation of GTP-binding proteins during fertilization and zygote differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Cell Res. 205: 240-245.
	
Browne, L. H. and K. L. Williams (1993). "Pure populations of Dictyostelium discoideum prespore and prestalk cells obtained by flow cytometry have different redevelopment characteristics at their cell surfaces." Cytometry 14: 660-667.
	
Browne, L. H. and K. L. Williams (1993). "Gradients in the expression of cell surface glycoproteins in a simple tissue, the Dictyostelium discoideum slug." J. Gen. Microbiol. 139: 847-853.
	
Brenot, F. and M. Satre (1993). "Decreased endo-lysosomal acidification capacity in methylene diphosphonate-resistant mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 109: 7-12.
	
Brar, S. K. and C. H. Siu (1993). "Characterization of the cell adhesion molecule gp24 in Dictyostelium discoideum - mediation of cell-cell adhesion via a Ca2+-dependent mechanism." J. Biol. Chem. 268: 24902-24909.
	
Bozzone, D. M. (1993). A practical guide to the use of cellular slime molds for laboratory exercises and experiments. Tested studies for laboratory teaching: Proceedings of the 14th Workshop/Conference of the Association for Biology Laboratory Education (ABLE). C. A. Goldman. Toronto, Ontario, ABLE. 14: 1-19.
	
Bonner, J. T. (1993). Life cycles: reflections of an evolutionary biologist. Princeton, NJ, Princeton Univ. Press.
	
Bonner, J. T. (1993). "Proteolysis and orientation in Dictyostelium slugs." J. Gen. Microbiol. 139: 2319-2322.
	
Bominaar, A. A. and P. J. M. van Haastert (1993). "Chemotactic antagonists of cAMP inhibit Dictyostelium phospholipase C." J. Cell Sci. 104: 181-185.
	
Bominaar, A. A., et al. (1993). "Activation of G-proteins by receptor-stimulated nucleoside diphosphate kinase in Dictyostelium." EMBO J. 12: 2275-2279.
	
Blanton, R. L. (1993). "Prestalk cells in monolayer cultures exhibit two distinct modes of cellulose synthesis during stalk cell differentiation in Dictyostelium." Development 119: 703-710.
	
Aubry, L., et al. (1993). "Endo-lysosomal acidification in Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae - effects of two endocytosis inhibitors - caffeine and cycloheximide." Eur. J. Cell Biol. 61: 225-228.
	
Aubry, L., et al. (1993). "Kinetics of endosomal pH evolution in Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae - study by fluorescence spectroscopy." J. Cell Sci. 105: 861-866.
	
Anschutz, A. L., et al. (1993). "P36, a Dictyostelium discoideum protein whose phosphorylation is stimulated by GDP, is homologous to the alpha-subunit of succinyl-CoA synthetase." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1162: 40-46.
	
Anjard, C., et al. (1993). "An unusual catalytic subunit for the cAMP-dependent protein kinase of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochemistry 32: 9532-9538.
	
Aiba, K., et al. (1993). "Distribution of gp138, a cell surface protein responsible for sexual cell fusion, among cellular slime moulds." J. Gen. Microbiol. 139: 279-285.
	
Aguado-Velasco, M., et al. (1993). "Isolation of myosin from Dictyostelium cytoskeletons." Protein Express. Purif. 4: 328-332.
	
Aguado-Velasco, C. and E. R. Kuczmarski (1993). "Contraction of reconstituted Dictyostelium cytoskeletons: an apparent role for higher order associations among myosin filaments." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 26: 103-114.
	
Agarwal, P. (1993). Cell-based computer models in developmental biology. New York, NY, New York University: 149.
	
Zigmond, S. H., et al. (1992). "Inhibition of actin filament depolymerization by the Dictyostelium 30,000-D actin-bundling protein." J. Cell Biol. 119: 559-567.
	
Zhu, Q. L. and M. Clarke (1992). "Association of calmodulin and an unconventional myosin with the contractile vacuole complex of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Biol. 118: 347-358.
	
Yumura, S., et al. (1992). "Concerted movement of prestalk cells in migrating slugs of Dictyostelium revealed by the localization of myosin." Devel. Growth Differ. 34: 319-328.
	
Yumura, S. and T. Kitanishi-Yumura (1992). "Release of myosin II from the membrane-cytoskeleton of Dictyostelium discoideum mediated by heavy-chain phosphorylation at the foci within the cortical actin network." J. Cell Biol. 117: 1231-1239.
	
Yuen, I. S. (1992). A density sensing mechanism in the eukaryote Dictyostelium discoideum (glycoprotein). Houston, TX, Rice University: 179.
	
Yoshida, M., et al. (1992). "Identification of sialic acids in cell adhesion molecule, contact site A from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 188: 794-798.
	
Yin, Y. Z. and D. L. Welker (1992). "Dictyostelium giganteum plasmid Dgp1 is a member of the Ddp2 plasmid family." Plasmid 28: 37-45.
	
Yamada, Y. and K. Okamoto (1992). "Cell-type-specific responsiveness to cAMP in cell differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 149: 235-237.
	
Wurster, B. (1992). Degradation of chlorinated aromatic cpds., esp. in soil - by enzymes produced from cellular slime fungi e.g. Dictyostelium. Germany, Frehland, E; Kreikenbohm, R; Wurster, B. De19914115351: 8 claims.
	
Wu, X. F., et al. (1992). "The 80L5C4 epitope overlaps with the homophilic binding site of the cell adhesion molecule gp80 of Dictyostelium." Biochem. Cell Biol. 70: 246-249.
	
Wu, L. (1992). Molecular cloning, characterization, and developmental expression of the gene encoding the cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase inhibitor of Dictyostelium discoideum. New York, NY, Columbia Univ.: 163.
	
Wright, D. G. and A. R. Kimmel (1992). Guanylate depletion is an early metabolic event in Dictyostelium development triggered by nutrient deprivation. Mol. Biol. Cell.
	
Wright, B. E., et al. (1992). "Systems analysis of the tricarboxylic acid cycle in Dictyostelium discoideum.1. The basis for model construction." J. Biol. Chem. 267: 3101-3105.
	
Witke, W., et al. (1992). "Redundancy in the microfilament system - abnormal development of Dictyostelium cells lacking two F-actin cross-linking proteins." Cell 68: 53-62.
	
Wimpenny, J. W. T. (1992). Microbial systems patterns in time and space. Advances in Microbial Ecology. K. C. Marshall. New York, Plenum Press: 469-522.
	
Wilson, A. K., et al. (1992). "The role of myosin-I and myosin-II in cell motility." Cancer Metastasis Rev. 11: 79-91.
	
Whitbread, J. A. (1992). Polyene antibiotic resistance: new insights gained using filipin and filipin resistant mutations in Dictyostelium discoideum. Stony Brook, NY, State University of New York (SUNY) at Stony Brook: 146.
	
Wetterauer, B., et al. (1992). "Biochemical characterization of thioredoxin-1 from Dictyostelium discoideum." Eur. J. Biochem. 209: 643-649.
	
Wetterauer, B., et al. (1992). "Thioredoxins from Dictyostelium discoideum are a developmentally regulated multigene family." J. Biol. Chem. 267: 9895-9904.
	
West, C. M. and G. W. Erdos (1992). "Incorporation of protein into spore coats is not cell autonomous in Dictyostelium." J. Cell Biol. 116: 1291-1300.
	
Wessels, D., et al. (1992). "Behavior of Dictyostelium amoebae is regulated primarily by the temporal dynamic of the natural cAMP wave." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 23: 145-156.
	
Vornlocher, H. P. and D. P. Hader (1992). "Isolation and characterization of the putative photoreceptor for phototaxis in amoebae of the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum." Botanica Acta 105: 47-54.
	
Vocke, C. D. and E. C. Cox (1992). "Establishment and maintenance of stable spatial patterns in lacZ fusion transformants of Polysphondylium pallidum." Development 115: 59-65.
	
van Lookeren Campagne, M. M., et al. (1992). "Selection of cDNAs for phosphodiesterases that hydrolyze guanosine 3';5'-monophosphate in Escherichia coli." Sec. Mess. Phosphoprot. 14: 127-137.
	
Van Houten, J. (1992). "Chemosensory transduction in eukaryotic microorganisms." Annu. Rev. Physiol. 54: 639-663.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M., et al. (1992). "cAMP-induced desensitization of surface cAMP receptors in Dictyostelium: different second messengers mediate receptor phosphorylation, loss of ligand binding, degradation of receptor, and reduction of receptor mRNA levels." Mol. Biol. Cell 3: 603-612.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M. (1992). Signal transduction in Dictyostelium. GBB Annual Report (Groningen Biomolecular Sciences and Biotechnology Institute).
	
van Haastert, P. J. M. (1992). Sensory transduction in Dictyostelium. Adenine nucleotides in cellular energy transfer and signal transduction. S. Papa, A. Azzi and J. M. Tager. Basel, Switzerland, Birkhauser: 379-386.
	
van Duijn, B. and P. J. M. van Haastert (1992). "Independent control of locomotion and orientation during Dictyostelium discoideum chemotaxis." J. Cell Sci. 102: 763-768.
	
Valkema, R. and P. J. M. van Haastert (1992). "Inhibition of receptor-stimulated guanylyl cyclase by intracellular calcium ions in Dictyostelium cells." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 186: 263-268.
	
Urushihara, H. (1992). "Carbohydrates in mating of the cellular slime mold." Tanpakushitsu Kakusan Koso 37: 1796-1799.
	
Urushihara, H. (1992). "Review - Sexual development of cellular slime mold." Devel. Growth Differ. 34: 1-8.
	
Unger, E., et al. (1992). "The microtubule system and the reduplication of microtubule organizing centres in Dictyostelium discoideum." Acta Histochem. Suppl. 41: 19-28.
	
Uchiyama, S., et al. (1992). "Determination of the molecular weights of ribonuclease isozymes in a cell-free crude extract of Dictyostelium discoideum, by activity-staining of gels after SDS-PAGE." Compar. Biochem. Physiol. 102B: 343-348.
	
Truong, T., et al. (1992). "Actin-activated Mg-ATPase activity of Dictyostelium myosin II. Effects of filament formation and heavy chain phosphorylation." J. Biol. Chem. 267: 9767-9772.
	
Troll, H., et al. (1992). "Purification, functional characterization, and cDNA sequencing of mitochondrial porin from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 267: 21072-21079.
	
Traynor, D., et al. (1992). "Chemotactic sorting to cAMP in the multicellular stages of Dictyostelium development." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 89: 8303-8307.
	
Travis, J. (1992). How cells get their actin together (Research News - Comment). Science. 256: 177-178.
	
Thiery, R., et al. (1992). "The effects of expression of an activated rasG mutation on the differentiation of Dictyostelium." Biochem. Cell Biol. 70: 1193-1199.
	
Tasaka, M., et al. (1992). "Protein binding and DNase-I-hypersensitive sites in the cis-acting regulatory region of the spore-coat SP96 gene of Dictyostelium." Mech. Devel. 36: 105-116.
	
Taphouse, C. R. (1992). Density sensing in Dictyostelium discoideum: evidence for the sequestering of a density sensing factor in the plasma membrane and a role for this factor in cell aggregation. Houston, TX, Rice University: 65.
	
Tao, Y. P., et al. (1992). "Nitric oxide-releasing compounds inhibit Dictyostelium discoideum aggregation without altering cGMP production." FEBS Lett. 314: 49-52.
	
Tao, Y. P., et al. (1992). "Nitric oxide stimulates the ADP-ribosylation of a 41-kDa cytosolic protein in Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 89: 5902-5906.
	
Tan, J. L., et al. (1992). "Control of nonmuscle myosins by phosphorylation." Annu. Rev. Biochem. 61: 721-759.
	
Tan, J. L. (1992). Regulation of myosin II by light chain phosphorylation: studies on the Dictyostelium myosin light chain kinase (Dictyostelium discoideum). Stanford, CA, Stanford University: 195.
	
Swanson, A. R. (1992). Distribution of dictyostelid cellular slime molds in different plant community sites of Belize and northern Guatemala, Central America. Athens, OH, Ohio University.
	
Suzuki, T., et al. (1992). "Cyclic AMP and Ca2+ as regulators of zygote formation in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium mucoroides." Differentiation 49: 127-132.
	
Sutoh, K. (1992). "Actin-myosin motors." Seikagaku 64: 407-413.
	
Sucic, J. F. (1992). Regulation of glycogen phosphorylase genes in Dictyostelium discoideum (gene regulation, cyclic AMP). Blacksburg, VA, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University: 130.
	
Strauch, M. A. and J. A. Hoch (1992). "Sporulation in prokaryotes and lower eukaryotes." Curr. Opin. Genet. Devel. 2: 799-804.
	
Stober-Grasser, U., et al. (1992). "The myb DNA-binding domain is highly conserved in Dictyostelium discoideum." Oncogene 7: 589-596.
	
Sternfeld, J. (1992). "A study of pstB cells during Dictyostelium migration and culmination reveals a unidirectional cell type conversion process." W.R. Arch. Dev. Biol. 201: 354-363.
	
Stephenson, S. L. and J. C. Landolt (1992). "Vertebrates as vectors of cellular slime molds in temperate forests." Mycol. Res. 96: 670-672.
	
Spann, T. and R. Gomer (1992). Generation of developmental mutants in Dictyostelium by transformation with an antisense cDNA library. Mol. Biol. Cell.
	
So, J. S. and G. Weeks (1992). "The effects of presumptive morphogens on prestalk and prespore cell gene expression in monolayers of Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 51: 73-78.
	
Siu, C. H., et al. (1992). "Inhibition of cell-cell adhesion and morphogenesis of Dictyostelium by carnitine." J. Cell. Physiol. 152: 157-165.
	
Simon, M. N., et al. (1992). "Serine/threonine protein phosphatases in Dictyostelium discoideum: no evidence for type I activity." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 184: 1142-1151.
	
Simon, M. N., et al. (1992). "Mutation of protein kinase A causes heterochronic development of Dictyostelium." Nature 356: 171-172.
	
Siegert, F. and C. J. Weijer (1992). Wave propagation and cell movement control morphogenesis of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum. Spatio Temporal Organization in Nonequilibrium Systems. S. C. Muller and T. Plesser. Dortmund, Germany, projekt verlag: 244-246.
	
Siegert, F. and C. J. Weijer (1992). "Three-dimensional scroll waves organize Dictyostelium slugs." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 89: 6433-6437.
	
Siegert, F., et al. (1992). Three-dimensional autowaves control cell motion in Dictyostelium slugs. Spatio Temporal Organization in Nonequilibrium Systems. S. C. Muller and T. Plesser. Dortmund, Germany, projekt verlag: 241-243.
	
Shiraishi, F. and M. A. Savageau (1992). "The tricarboxylic acid cycle in Dictyostelium discoideum.4. Resolution of discrepancies between alternative methods of analysis." J. Biol. Chem. 267: 22934-22943.
	
Shiraishi, F. and M. A. Savageau (1992). "The tricarboxylic acid cycle in Dictyostelium discoideum.3. Analysis of steady state and dynamic behavior." J Biol Chem 267: 22926-22933.
	
Shiraishi, F. and M. A. Savageau (1992). "The tricarboxylic acid cycle in Dictyostelium discoideum.2. Evaluation of model consistency and robustness." J. Biol. Chem. 267: 22919-22925.
	
Shiraishi, F. and M. A. Savageau (1992). "The tricarboxylic acid cycle in Dictyostelium discoideum.1. Formulation of alternative kinetic representations." J. Biol. Chem. 267: 22912-22918.
	
Shariff, A. and E. J. Luna (1992). "Diacylglycerol-stimulated formation of actin nucleation sites at plasma membranes." Science 256: 245-247.
	
Sellitto, C., et al. (1992). "Heterogeneity of microtubule organizing center components as revealed by monoclonal antibodies to mammalian centrosomes and to nucleus-associated bodies from Dictyostelium." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 22: 7-24.
	
Segel, L. and J. J. Tyson (1992). "Law of mass action. [letter]." Nature 357: 106.
	
Segall, J. E. (1992). "Behavioral responses of streamer F mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum: effects of cyclic GMP on cell motility." J. Cell Sci. 101: 589-597.
	
Schweiger, A., et al. (1992). "Stage-specific tyrosine phosphorylation of actin in Dictyostelium discoideum cells." J. Cell Sci. 102: 601-609.
	
Schulkes, C. C. G. M., et al. (1992). "A soluble factor and GTPgammaS are required for Dictyostelium discoideum guanylate cyclase activity." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1135: 73-78.
	
Schopohl, D., et al. (1992). "Purification and properties of a secreted and developmentally regulated alpha-L-fucosidase from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 267: 2400-2405.
	
Schoen, C. D., et al. (1992). "Regulation of adenylate cyclase in electropermeabilized Dictyostelium discoideum cells." Exp. Cell Res. 199: 162-168.
	
Schleicher, M. and A. A. Noegel (1992). "Dynamics of the Dictyostelium cytoskeleton during chemotaxis." New Biol. 4: 461-472.
	
Schlatterer, C., et al. (1992). "Intracellular calcium during chemotaxis of Dictyostelium discoideum: a new fura-2 derivative avoids sequestration of the indicator and allows long-term calcium measurements." Eur. J. Cell Biol. 58: 172-181.
	
Scherczinger, C. A. M. (1992). A detailed analysis of antisense RNA inhibition of myosin II heavy chain gene expression in Dictyostelium discoideum. Storrs, CT, The University of Connecticut: 189.
	
Scherczinger, C. A., et al. (1992). "Variables affecting antisense RNA inhibition of gene expression." Ann. NY Acad. Sci. 660: 45-56.
	
Schatzle, J. D. (1992). Developmental regulation of the lysosomal enzyme alpha-mannosidase in Dictyostelium discoideum. Shreveport, LA, Louisiana State University Medical Center: 169.
	
Schatzle, J., et al. (1992). "Molecular cloning and characterization of the structural gene coding for the developmentally regulated lysosomal enzyme, alpha-mannosidase, in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 267: 4000-4007.
	
Sameshima, M., et al. (1992). "Correlation of axenic linkage groups with the position of the microtubule-organizing center in aggregating Dictyostelium." Cell Struct. Funct. 17: 417-426.
	
Rutherford, C. L., et al. (1992). "Cloning, structural analysis, and expression of the glycogen phosphorylase-2 gene in Dictyostelium." J. Biol. Chem. 267: 2294-2302.
	
Rooney, E. K. and J. D. Gross (1992). "ATP-driven Ca2+/H+ antiport in acid vesicles from Dictyostelium." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 89: 8025-8029.
	
Rogers, P. V., et al. (1992). "Characterization and cloning of glycogen phosphorylase-1 from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1129: 262-272.
	
Rogers, M. J., et al. (1992). "Metabolism of halogenated bisphosphonates by the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 189: 414-423.
	
Robbins, S. M., et al. (1992). "Cloning and characterization of the Dictyostelium discoideum rasG genomic sequences." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1130: 85-89.
	
Richardson, D. L. and W. F. Loomis (1992). "Disruption of the sporulation-specific gene spiA in Dictyostelium discoideum leads to spore instability." Genes Devel. 6: 1058-1070.
	
Reynolds, W. N. (1992). Pattern formation in excitable media (spiral formation, Dictyostelium discoideum). La Jolla, CA, University of California, San Diego (UCSD): 120.
	
Ravid, S. and J. A. Spudich (1992). "Membrane-bound Dictyostelium myosin heavy chain kinase - a developmentally regulated substrate-specific member of the protein kinase-C family." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 89: 5877-5881.
	
Rathi, A. and M. Clarke (1992). "Expression of early developmental genes in Dictyostelium discoideum is initiated during exponential growth by an autocrine-dependent mechanism." Mech. Devel. 36: 173-182.
	
Ramalingam, R., et al. (1992). "The Dictyostelium discoideum spore germination-specific cellulase is organized into functional domains." J. Bacteriol. 174: 7834-7837.
	
Ramagopal, S. (1992). "Are eukaryotic ribosomes heterogeneous? Affirmations on the horizon." Biochem. Cell Biol. 70: 269-272.
	
Ramagopal, S. (1992). "The Dictyostelium ribosome: Biochemistry, molecular biology, and developmental regulation." Biochem. Cell Biol. 70: 738-750.
	
Pupillo, M., et al. (1992). "Multiple cyclic AMP receptors are linked to adenylyl cyclase in Dictyostelium." Mol. Biol. Cell. 3: 1229-1234.
	
Powell, J. A., et al. (1992). "A negative transcriptional control region of a developmentally-regulated gene co-localizes with the origin of replication of an endogenous plasmid in Dictyostelium." Nucl. Acids Res. 20: 2795-2812.
	
Pollenz, R. S., et al. (1992). "The Dictyostelium essential light chain is required for myosin function." Cell 69: 951-962.
	
Pitt, G. S., et al. (1992). "Structurally distinct and stage-specific adenylyl cyclase genes play different roles in Dictyostelium development." Cell 69: 305-315.
	
Peters, D. J. M., et al. (1992). "Lithium, an inhibitor of cAMP-induced inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate accumulation in Dictyostelium discoideum, inhibits activation of guanine-nucleotide-binding regulatory proteins, reduces activation of adenylylcyclase, but potentiates activation of guanylyl cyclase by cAMP." Eur. J. Biochem. 209: 299-304.
	
Pelorgeas, S., et al. (1992). "Cytotoxicity of dichloromethane diphosphonate and of 1-hydroxyethane-1,1-diphosphonate in the amoebae of the slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum - A 31P NMR study." Biochem. Pharmacol. 44: 2157-2163.
	
Pamula, F. and J. F. Wheldrake (1992). "The effect of AMP on the NAD-dependent glutamate dehydrogenase during activation and morphogenesis in the cellular slime moulds." J. Gen. Microbiol. 138: 1935-1940.
	
Owen, C. H., et al. (1992). "Actin crosslinking protein EF-1a of Dictyostelium discoideum has a unique bonding rule that allows square-packed bundles." J. Struct. Biol. 109: 248-254.
	
Ospina, B., et al. (1992). "Purification of a soluble casein kinase-II from Dictyostelium discoideum lacking the beta-subunit; regulation during proliferation and differentiation." Mol. Cell. Biochem. 118: 49-60.
	
Oohata, A. A. (1992). "Induction of cell differentiation of isolated cells in Dictyostelium discoideum by low extracellular pH." Devel. Growth Differ. 34: 693-698.
	
Okaichi, K., et al. (1992). "Amino acid substitutions in the Dictyostelium Galpha subunit Galpha2 produce dominant negative phenotypes and inhibit the activation of adenylyl cyclase, guanylyl cyclase, and phospholipase C." Mol. Biol. Cell 3: 735-747.
	
O'Halloran, T. J. and R. G. W. Anderson (1992). "Clathrin heavy chain is required for pinocytosis, the presence of large vacuoles, and development in Dictyostelium." J. Cell Biol. 118: 1371-1377.
	
O'Halloran, T. J. and R. G. W. Anderson (1992). "Characterization of the clathrin heavy chain from Dictyostelium discoideum." DNA Cell Biol. 11: 321-330.
	
Newell, P. C. and G. Liu (1992). "Streamer F mutants and chemotaxis of Dictyostelium." Bioessays 14: 473-479.
	
Nellen, W., et al. (1992). "Mechanisms of gene regulation by endogenous and artificially introduced antisense RNA." Biochem. Soc. Trans. 20: 750-754.
	
Nayler, O., et al. (1992). "Differentiation-inducing-factor dechlorinase, a novel cytosolic dechlorinating enzyme from Dictyostelium discoideum." Eur. J. Biochem. 208: 531-536.
	
Nanjundiah, V. and S. Saran (1992). "The determination of spatial pattern in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biosci. 17: 353-394.
	
Mukhopadhyay, S. and S. Chatterjee (1992). "Studies on cell growth and development of Dictyostelium discoideum treated with carbaryl, a pesticide." Indian J. Exp. Biol. 30: 500-503.
	
Morrison, A. and A. Harwood (1992). "A simple method of generating axenic derivatives of Dictyostelium strains." Exp. Cell Res. 199: 383-386.
	
Michaelis, C. and G. Weeks (1992). "Isolation and characterization of a cdc2 cDNA from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1132: 35-42.
	
Melki, R., et al. (1992). "Nucleoside diphosphate kinase does not directly interact with tubulin nor microtubules." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 187: 65-72.
	
Medley, Q. G., et al. (1992). "Dictyostelium myosin-II heavy-chain kinase-A is activated by heparin, DNA and acidic phospholipids and inhibited by polylysine, polyarginine and histones." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1175: 7-12.
	
McPherson, C. E. and C. K. Singleton (1992). "Nutrient-dependent expression of a vegetative-specific gene of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. System. Ecol. 20: 317-324.
	
McPherson, C. E. and C. K. Singleton (1992). "V4, a gene required for the transition from growth to development in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 150: 231-242.
	
Mayr, G. W., et al. (1992). "Phosphoinositol diphosphates: non-enzymic formation in vitro and occurrence in vivo in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium." Carbohydr. Res. 234: 247-262.
	
Marx, J. (1992). "Dictyostelium researchers expect gene bonanza." Science 258: 402-403.
	
Marschalek, R., et al. (1992). "Structure of DRE, a retrotransposable element which integrates with position specificity upstream of Dictyostelium discoideum tRNA genes." Mol. Cell. Biol. 12: 229-239.
	
Marschalek, R., et al. (1992). "Two distinct subforms of the retrotransposable DRE element in NC4 strains of Dictyostelium discoideum." Nucl. Acids Res. 20: 6247-6252.
	
Mann, S. K. O., et al. (1992). "DdPK3, which plays essential roles during Dictyostelium development, encodes the catalytic subunit of cAMP-dependent protein kinase." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 89: 10701-10705.
	
Mahajan, R. K. (1992). A mechanism for myosin assembly and cytoskeletal contractile fiber formation in Dictyostelium amoebae. New York, NY, Cornell University Medical College: 192.
	
Maeda, M. (1992). "Induction of conspicuously long extensions of Dictyostelium cells by protein kinase inhibitors K252a and staurosporine." Proc. Japan Acad. Series B 68: 41-46.
	
Maeda, M. (1992). "Efficient induction of sporulation of Dictyostelium prespore cells by 8-bromocyclic AMP under both submerged- and shaken-culture conditions and involvement of protein kinase(s) in its action." Devel. Growth Differ. 34: 263-275.
	
Luo, S. (1992). Molecular analysis of glycogen phosphorylase-1 gene expression during the development of Dictyostelium discoideum. Blacksburg, VA, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State Univ.: 117.
	
Luna, E. J. and A. L. Hitt (1992). "Cytoskeletal-plasma membrane interactions." Science 258: 955-964.
	
Luderus, M. E. E., et al. (1992). "Ligand-independent reduction of cAMP receptors in Dictyostelium discoideum cells over-expressing a mutated ras gene." Eur. J. Biochem. 208: 235-240.
	
Luck-Vielmetter, D. (1992). Molekulargenetische Untersuchungen zur Rolle von Myosin II bei der Chemotaxis. Munich, Germany, Ludwig-Maximillanus Universitat Munchen: 133.
	
Loomis, W. F. (1992). Antisense inactivation of developmental genes in Dictyostelium. Gene regulation. Biology of antisense RNA and DNA (Raven Press series mol. cell. biol.). R. P. Erickson and J. G. Izant. New York, Raven Press: 197-208.
	
Liu, T. Y., et al. (1992). "Inducible expression of calmodulin antisense RNA in Dictyostelium cells inhibits the completion of cytokinesis." Mol. Biol. Cell 3: 1403-1413.
	
Li, Y. X., et al. (1992). "Suppression of chaos by periodic oscillations in a model for cyclic AMP signalling in Dictyostelium cells." Experientia 48: 603-606.
	
Li, Y. X., et al. (1992). "Suppression of chaos and other dynamical transitions induced by intercellular coupling in a model for cyclic AMP signaling in Dictyostelium cells." Chaos 2: 501-512.
	
Li, Y. X. and A. Goldbeter (1992). "Pulsatile signaling in intercellular communication - Periodic stimuli are more efficient than random or chaotic signals in a model based on receptor desensitization." Biophys. J. 61: 161-171.
	
Lenhard, J. M., et al. (1992). "Characterization of endosome-endosome fusion in a cell-free system using Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 267: 1896-1903.
	
Lee, S. F. (1992). Studies on Dictyostelium myosin I isoforms and a myosin I heavy chain kinase. Kingston, ON (Canada), Queen's College at Kingston: 131.
	
Landolt, J. C., et al. (1992). "Cellular slime molds in West Virginia caves including notes on the occurrence and distribution of Dictyostelium rosarium." Mycologia 84: 399-405.
	
Landolt, J. C., et al. (1992). "Distribution patterns of cellular slime molds in the Kantishna Hills, Denali National Park and Preserve, Alaska, U.S.A." Arctic Alpine Res. 24: 244-248.
	
Lam, T. Y., et al. (1992). "The largest subunit of RNA polymerase-II in Dictyostelium: conservation of the unique tail domain and gene expression." Biochem. Cell Biol. 70: 792-799.
	
Lacoste, C. H., et al. (1992). "A sequence in beta-hexosaminidase from Dictyostelium discoideum required for sorting of proteins to a compartment involved in developmentally induced secretion." J. Biol. Chem. 267: 5942-5948.
	
Kuspa, A., et al. (1992). "Physical mapping of genes to specific chromosomes in Dictyostelium discoideum." Genomics 13: 49-61.
	
Kuspa, A. and W. F. Loomis (1992). "Tagging developmental genes in Dictyostelium by restriction enzyme-mediated integration of plasmid DNA." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 89: 8803-8807.
	
Kubohara, Y. and K. Okamoto (1992). "Developmental characterization of the wheat germ agglutinin binding proteins, wst31 and wst34, enriched in prestalk and stalk cells of Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 51: 163-169.
	
Kubalek, E. W., et al. (1992). "A Dictyostelium myosin-II lacking a proximal 58-kDa portion of the tail is functional in vitro and in vivo." Mol. Biol. Cell 3: 1455-1462.
	
Koonce, M. P., et al. (1992). "Dynein from Dictyostelium - primary structure comparisons between a cytoplasmic motor enzyme and flagellar dynein." J. Cell Biol. 119: 1597-1604.
	
Klein, R. (1992). "Determination of the stereoconfiguration of natural pterins by chiral high-performance liquid chromatography." Anal. Biochem. 203: 134-140.
	
Klein, G., et al. (1992). "Multinuclear NMR spectroscopy of the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium pallidum - monitoring of the encystment and excystment processes." Eur. J. Biochem. 204: 847-856.
	
Kimble, M., et al. (1992). "Identification of ubiquitous high-molecular-mass, heat-stable microtubule-associated proteins (MAPs) that are related to the Drosophila 205-kDa MAP but are not related to the mammalian MAP-4." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 89: 7693-7697.
	
Kikkawa, U., et al. (1992). "Molecular cloning of casein kinase-II alpha-subunit from Dictyostelium discoideum and its expression in the life cycle." Mol. Cell. Biol. 12: 5711-5723.
	
Kessin, R. H. and M. M. van Lookeren Campagne (1992). "The development of a social amoeba." Am. Scientist 80: 556-565.
	
Kay, R. R., et al. (1992). "Chlorine-containing compounds produced during Dictyostelium development - Detection by labelling with 36Cl." Biochem. J. 281: 155-161.
	
Kay, R. R. (1992). "Cell differentiation and patterning in Dictyostelium." Curr. Opin. Cell Biol. 4: 934-938.
	
Kasbekar, D. P. and T. B. Prasanna (1992). "The nysB sunD double mutant of Dictyostelium discoideum is blocked in the acquisition of nondegradative resistance to the pea phytoalexin pisatin." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 94: 251-254.
	
Kasbekar, D. P. and K. G. Papavinasasundaram (1992). "An inducible, nondegradative phytoalexin resistance mechanism in Dictyostelium discoideum is suppressed by mutations that alter membrane sterol composition." Appl. Env. Microbiol. 58: 2071-2074.
	
Johnson, R. L., et al. (1992). "The cyclic nucleotide specificity of three cAMP receptors in Dictyostelium." J. Biol. Chem. 267: 4600-4607.
	
Johnson, R. L., et al. (1992). "G-protein linked signaling pathways mediate development in Dictyostelium." CSH Symp. Quant. Biol. 57: 169-176.
	
Johnson, R. L. (1992). Characterization of a cAMP receptor family expressed during Dictyostelium development (signal transduction). Baltimore, MD, The Johns Hopkins University: 91.
	
Jay, P. Y. and E. L. Elson (1992). "Surface particle transport mechanism independent of myosin-II in Dictyostelium." Nature 356: 438-440.
	
Jain, R., et al. (1992). "A density-sensing factor controls development in Dictyostelium." Genes Devel. 6: 390-400.
	
Jain, R., et al. (1992). "Increasing specificity from the PCR-RACE technique." Biotechniques 12: 58-59.
	
Insall, R., et al. (1992). "DIF-1 induces its own breakdown in Dictyostelium." EMBO J. 11: 2849-2854.
	
Inouye, K. (1992). "Patterning in the cellular slime moulds." J. Biosci. 17: 115-128.
	
Humbel, B. M. and E. Biegelmann (1992). "A preparation protocol for postembedding immunoelectron microscopy of Dictyostelium discoideum cells with monoclonal antibodies." Scanning Microsc. 6: 817-825.
	
Hughes, J. E., et al. (1992). "Selection of Dictyostelium discoideum transformants and analysis of vector maintenance using live bacteria resistant to G418." Plasmid 28: 46-60.
	
Huang, J. X., et al. (1992). "The purification, specificity, and role of dipeptidyl peptidase III in Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Mycol. 16: 102-109.
	
Howard, P. K., et al. (1992). "Analysis of a spatially regulated phosphotyrosine phosphatase identifies tyrosine phosphorylation as a key regulatory pathway in Dictyostelium." Cell 71: 637-647.
	
Howard, P. K. (1992). Roles for tyrosine phosphorylation in the regulation of Dictyostelium development (phosphotyrosine phosphatase). La Jolla, CA, University of California, San Diego (UCSD): 153.
	
Hong, J. S., et al. (1992). "Cellular slime molds of Halla Mountain. II. Occurrence and distribution in warm temperate region." Korean J. Ecol. 15: 191-200.
	
Hong, J. S., et al. (1992). "Cellular slime molds of Halla Mountain. I. Occurrence and distribution." Korean J. Ecol. 15: 181-189.
	
Hong, J. S. and N. K. Chang (1992). "Cellular slime molds of Halla Mountain. III. Description of polar granule positive species." Korean J. Bot. 35: 307-316.
	
Hong, J. S. and N. K. Chang (1992). "A new species of cellular slime molds from Korea, Dictyostelium floridum sp. nov." Korean J. Bot. 35: 393-401.
	
Hong, J. S. and N. K. Chang (1992). "A new species of cellular slime molds from Korea, Dictyostelium flavidum sp. nov." Korean J. Bot. 35: 197-203.
	
Hofmann, A., et al. (1992). "Cap100, a novel phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate-regulated protein that caps actin filaments but does not nucleate actin assembly." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 23: 133-144.
	
Hirono, M., et al. (1992). "A chimeric actin carrying N-terminal portion of Tetrahymena actin does not bind to DNase-I." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 184: 1511-1516.
	
Hinze, E., et al. (1992). "Immunological characterization of the cdc2 and wee1 proteins during the growth and differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum." Devel. Growth Differ. 34: 363-.
	
Hildebrandt, M. and W. Nellen (1992). "Differential antisense transcription from the Dictyostelium EB4 gene locus - implications on antisense-mediated regulation of messenger RNA stability." Cell 69: 197-204.
	
Hereld, D. and P. N. Devreotes (1992). "The cAMP receptor family of Dictyostelium." Int. Rev. Cytol. 137B: 35-47.
	
Heads, R. J., et al. (1992). "The lysine-rich H1-histones from the slime moulds, Physarum polycephalum and Dictyostelium discoideum, lack phosphorylation sites recognised by cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase in vitro." FEBS Lett. 306: 66-70.
	
Haser, H. and D. P. Hader (1992). "Orientation and phototaxis in pseudoplasmodia of an axenic strain of the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Mycol. 16: 119-131.
	
Harwood, A. J., et al. (1992). "Culmination in Dictyostelium is regulated by the cAMP-dependent protein kinase." Cell 69: 615-624.
	
Harwood, A. J., et al. (1992). "Multiple roles for cAMP-dependent protein kinase during Dictyostelium development." Dev. Biol. 149: 90-99.
	
Hagiwara, H. and A. Someya (1992). "Killer activity observed in dictyostelid cellular slime molds." Bull. Natl. Sci. Mus. Tokyo, Ser. B 18: 17-22.
	
Hagiwara, H., et al. (1992). "Dictyostelid cellular slime molds of Taiwan." Bull. Natl. Sci. Mus. Tokyo, Ser. B 18: 39-52.
	
Hagiwara, H. (1992). "Dictyostelids in Hokkaido, Japan. I. Discovery of Dictyostelium microsporum Hagiwara in Hokkaido." Mem. Natl. Sci. Mus. Tokyo 25: 57-61.
	
Hagiwara, H. (1992). Altitudinal distribution of dictyostelid cellular slime molds in the southern area of Mt. Nanga Parbat, Pakistan. Cryptogamic Flora of Pakistan. T. Nakaike and S. Malik. Tokyo, Japan, National Science Museum. 1: 99-108.
	
Hagiwara, H. (1992). Dictyostelid cellular slime molds of Pakistan. I. Distribution and occurrence in soils of forests, cultivated fields and alpine pastures. Cryptogamic Flora of Pakistan. T. Nakaike and S. Malik. Tokyo, Japan, National Science Museum. 1: 87-98.
	
Hagiwara, H. (1992). "Taxonomic studies in dictyostelids. 1. Dictyostelium giganteum Singh, D. firmibasis Hagiwara and D. magnum Hagiwara." Bull. Natl. Sci. Mus. Tokyo, Ser. B 18: 101-107.
	
Hagiwara, H. (1992). "Preliminary study of interspecific mixtures in dictyostelids." Bull. Natl. Sci. Mus. Tokyo, Ser. B 18: 83-100.
	
Hagiwara, H. (1992). "Two forms of Dictyostelium purpureum Olive in Japan." Bull. Natl. Sci. Mus. Tokyo, Ser. B 18: 7-15.
	
Hagiwara, H. (1992). "Dictyostelium clavatum sp. nov. and Dictyostelium medium sp. nov.: new dictyostelid cellular slime molds from Nepal." Bull. Natl. Sci. Mus. Tokyo, Ser. B 18: 1-6.
	
Hadwiger, J. A. and R. A. Firtel (1992). "Analysis of Galpha4, a G-protein subunit required for multicellular development in Dictyostelium." Genes Devel. 6: 38-49.
	
Habazettl, J., et al. (1992). "Homonuclear three-dimensional noe-noe nuclear magnetic resonance-spectra for structure determination of proteins in solution." J. Mol. Biol. 228: 156-169.
	
Habazettl, J., et al. (1992). "Structure of hisactophilin is similar to interleukin-1beta and fibroblast growth factor." Nature 359: 855-858.
	
Greiner, R. A., et al. (1992). "A 138-kDa glycoprotein from Dictyostelium membranes with folate deaminase and folate binding activity." J. Biol. Chem. 267: 5096-5101.
	
Greenwood, M. T. and A. Tsang (1992). "Regulation of the gene encoding the p24-actin-binding protein in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Cell Biol. 70: 1047-1054.
	
Greenwood, M. T. (1992). Isolation and characterization of Dictyostelium discoideum genes encoding a common proline-rich region (annexin VII). Montreal, QU (Canada), McGill University: 166.
	
Gooley, A. A., et al. (1992). "Size polymorphisms due to changes in the number of O-glycosylated tandem repeats in the Dictyostelium discoideum glycoprotein PSA." Genetics 130: 749-756.
	
Gonzalez-Yanes, B., et al. (1992). "Characterization of a cytosolic fucosylation pathway in Dictyostelium." J. Biol. Chem. 267: 9595-9605.
	
Gingell, D. and N. Owens (1992). "How do cells sense and respond to adhesive contacts? Diffusion-trapping of laterally mobile membrane proteins at maturing adhesions may initiate signals leading to local cytoskeletal assembly response and lamella formation." J. Cell Sci. 101: 255-266.
	
Gayatri, R. and S. Chatterjee (1992). "Effects of lindane on growth of cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Bull. Env. Contam. Toxicol. 49: 285-289.
	
Gaskell, M. J., et al. (1992). "Immunolocalization and separation of multiple prestalk cell types in Dictyostelium." Differentiation 51: 171-176.
	
Gao, E. N., et al. (1992). "Purification and partial characterization of a cell adhesion molecule (gp150) involved in postaggregation stage cell-cell binding in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 267: 9409-9415.
	
Gambino, M., et al. (1992). "Morphogenesis and differentiation of Dictyostelium cells interacting with immobilized glucosides - dependence on DIF production." Differentiation 49: 133-141.
	
Furukawa, R., et al. (1992). "The Dictyostelium discoideum 30,000-dalton protein contributes to phagocytosis." Protoplasma 169: 18-27.
	
Freeze, H. H., et al. (1992). "A novel pathway for phosphorylated oligosaccharide biosynthesis - identification of an oligosaccharide-specific phosphate methyltransferase in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 267: 4431-4439.
	
Franke, J. and R. H. Kessin (1992). "The cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterases of Dictyostelium discoideum: Molecular genetics and biochemistry." Cell. Signal. 4: 471-478.
	
Fasel, N., et al. (1992). "Dictyostelium discoideum as an expression host for the circumsporozoite protein of Plasmodium falciparum." Gene 111: 157-163.
	
Fang, H., et al. (1992). "Ammonia determines the alternative pathways of sexual or asexual development in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Devel. Growth Differ. 34: 373-378.
	
Faix, J., et al. (1992). "Overexpression of the csA cell adhesion molecule under its own cAMP-regulated promoter impairs morphogenesis in Dictyostelium." J. Cell Sci. 102: 203-214.
	
Esch, R. K., et al. (1992). "Regulation of the Dictyostelium cAMP-induced, prestalk-specific DdrasD gene - Identification of cis-acting elements." Nucl. Acids Res. 20: 1325-1332.
	
Elgar, G. and J. P. Schofield (1992). "Carbamoyl phosphate synthetase (CPSase) in the PYR1-3 multigene of Dictyostelium discoideum." DNA Sequence 2: 219-226.
	
Eichinger, L. and M. Schleicher (1992). "Characterization of actin-binding and lipid-binding domains in severin, a Ca2+-dependent F-actin fragmenting protein." Biochemistry 31: 4779-4787.
	
Dumas, C., et al. (1992). "X-ray structure of nucleoside diphosphate kinase." EMBO J. 11: 3203-3208.
	
Drayer, A. L. and P. J. M. van Haastert (1992). "Molecular cloning and expression of a phosphoinositide-specific phospholipase C of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 267: 18387-18392.
	
Dingermann, T., et al. (1992). "Establishment of a system for conditional gene expression using an inducible tRNA suppressor gene." Mol. Cell. Biol. 12: 4038-4045.
	
Desbarats, L., et al. (1992). "Identification of a unique cAMP-response element in the gene encoding the cell adhesion molecule gp80 in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 267: 19655-19664.
	
Delude, R. L. (1992). Transcriptional regulation of cycloheximide sensitive vegetative-specific H genes in Dictyostelium discoideum. Nashville, TN, Vanderbilt University: 167.
	
Cubitt, A. B. and R. A. Firtel (1992). "Characterization of phospholipase activity in Dictyostelium discoideum - Identification of a Ca2+- dependent polyphosphoinositidase-specific phospholipase-C." Biochem. J. 283: 371-378.
	
Cubitt, A. B., et al. (1992). "Molecular genetic analysis of signal transduction pathways controlling multicellular development in Dictyostelium." CSH Symp. Quant. Biol. 57: 177-192.
	
Cox, E. C. (1992). "Modeling and experiment in developmental biology." Curr. Opin. Genet. Devel. 2: 647-650.
	
Cox, D., et al. (1992). "Targeted disruption of the ABP-120 gene leads to cells with altered motility." J. Cell Biol. 116: 943-955.
	
Covey, J. F. (1992). Partial complementation of radC mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum with the denV gene. Kirksville, MO, Northeast Missouri State University: 78.
	
Coukell, M. B., et al. (1992). "Involvement of intracellular calcium in protein secretion in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 103: 371-380.
	
Cotter, D. A., et al. (1992). "Patterning of development in Dictyostelium discoideum: factors regulating growth, differentiation, spore dormancy, and germination." Biochem. Cell Biol. 70: 892-919.
	
Condeelis, J., et al. (1992). "Chemotaxis of metastatic tumor cells: Clues to mechanisms from the Dictyostelium paradigm." Cancer Metastasis Rev. 11: 55-68.
	
Condeelis, J. (1992). "Are all pseudopods created equal?" Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 22: 1-6.
	
Cole, R. A. and K. L. Williams (1992). "Tandem repeats in extrachromosomal ribosomal DNA of Dictyostelium discoideum, resulting from chromosomal mutations." Genetics 130: 757-769.
	
Clarke, M., et al. (1992). "Growing and starving Dictyostelium cells produce distinct density-sensing factors." Dev. Biol. 152: 403-406.
	
Chiklis, G. R. (1992). The effect of the external environment on the ubiquitin activating enzyme in Dictyostelium discoideum (heat shock). Lowell, MA, University of Lowell: 191.
	
Chandrasekhar, A., et al. (1992). "Biological and molecular correlates between induced dedifferentiation and spore germination in Dictyostelium." Development 116: 417-425.
	
Ceccarelli, A., et al. (1992). "A G-rich sequence element common to Dictyostelium genes which differ radically in their patterns of expression." Dev. Biol. 152: 188-193.
	
Ceccarelli, A. and S. Bozzaro (1992). "Selection of mutants defective in binding to immobilized carbohydrates in Dictyostelium discoideum." Anim. Biol. 1: 59-68.
	
Butler, J. R. and M. B. Coukell (1992). "Association of a cGMP-binding activity with nuclei isolated from amoebae of Dictyostelium discoideum and Polysphondylium violaceum." Biochem. Cell Biol. 70: 169-173.
	
Butler, J. R. (1992). Studies on the major cyclic GMP-binding protein in Dictyostelium discoideum and Polysphondylium violaceum. Toronto, ON (Canada), York University: 191.
	
Browning, D. D., et al. (1992). "Zygote giant cell differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum: Biochemical markers of specific stages of sexual development." Biochem. Cell Biol. 70: 1200-1208.
	
Bronner, C. E., et al. (1992). "Mutations affecting sensitivity of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum to DNA-damaging agents." Mutat. Res. 274: 187-200.
	
Brenot, F., et al. (1992). "Kinetics of endosomal acidification in Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae - 31P-NMR evidence for a very acidic early endosomal compartment." Biochimie 74: 883-895.
	
Breen, E. J., et al. (1992). "Length regulation in the Dictyostelium discoideum slug is a late event." J. Exp. Zool. 262: 299-306.
	
Bozzaro, S. (1992). Ch. 9: Dictyostelium: from unicellularity to multicellularity. Development: The Molecular Genetic Approach. V. E. A. Russo, S. Brody, D. Cove and S. Ottolenghi. Berlin, Springer-Verlag: 137-149.
	
Bonner, J. T. (1992). "The fate of a cell is a function of its position and vice-versa." J. Biosci. 17: 95-114.
	
Bonfils, C. (1992). Functional analysis of capA and its product, the cAMP-binding protein Cabp1, in Dictyostelium discoideum. Montreal, QU (Canada), McGill University: 122.
	
Bof, M., et al. (1992). "Dictyostelium discoideum mutants resistant to the toxic action of methylene diphosphonate are defective in endocytosis." J. Cell Sci. 101: 139-144.
	
Blusch, J., et al. (1992). "Transcriptional regulation by folate-inducible gene expression in Dictyostelium transformants during growth and early development." Nucl. Acids Res. 20: 6235-6238.
	
Belintsev, B. N., et al. (1992). "Physical-mathematical model of collective development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Biol.-Engl. Transl. 26: 246-256.
	
Barisic, K. (1992). Cyclophilin from Dictyostelium discoideum. Zagreb, University of Zagreb: 122.
	
Anschutz, A. L. (1992). Characterization and purification of a 36-kDa protein from Dictyostelium whose phosphorylation is enhanced by GDP (succinyl CoA synthetase). St. Louis, MO, Saint Louis University: 137.
	
Annuar, M. (1992). Detection of a sequence homologous to the denV gene in wild-type and in partially-complemented radC mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum. Kirksville, MO, Northeast Missouri State University: 101.
	
Anjard, C., et al. (1992). "Overexpression of Dd PK2 protein kinase causes rapid development and affects the intracellular cAMP pathway of Dictyostelium discoideum." Development 115: 785-790.
	
Amagai, A. and Y. Maeda (1992). "The ethylene action in the development of cellular slime molds - an analogy to higher plants." Protoplasma 167: 159-168.
	
Amagai, A. (1992). "Induction of heterothallic ond homothallic zygotes in Dictyostelium discoideum by ethylene." Devel. Growth Differ. 34: 293-300.
	
Alexander, S., et al. (1992). "Discoidin proteins of Dictyostelium are necessary for normal cytoskeletal organization and cellular morphology during aggregation." Differentiation 51: 149-161.
	
Alexander, S. and E. F. Rossomando (1992). Regulation of morphogenesis in Dictyostelium discoideum. Morphogenesis: an analysis of the development of biological form. E. F. Rossomando and S. Alexander. New York, Marcel Dekker: 29-61.
	
Albe, K. R. and B. E. Wright (1992). "Systems analysis of the tricarboxylic acid cycle in Dictyostelium discoideum. 2. Control analysis." J. Biol. Chem. 267: 3106-3114.
	
Akiyama, M. and Y. Maeda (1992). "Possible involvements of 101-kDa, 90-kDa, and 32-kDa phosphoproteins in the phase-shift of Dictyostelium cells from growth to differentiation." Differentiation 51: 79-90.
	
Aiba, K., et al. (1992). "Fusion-inhibiting monoclonal antibodies and their relevant antigens in relation to sexual process of Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 49: 63-68.
	
Yumura, S. (1991). "Contraction of Dictyostelium ghosts reconstituted with myosin-II." Cell Struct. Funct. 16: 481-488.
	
Yuen, I. S., et al. (1991). "Regulation and processing of a secreted protein that mediates sensing of cell density in Dictyostelium." Development 113: 1375-1385.
	
Yoshida, M., et al. (1991). "Mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum with altered carbohydrate moieties of contact site-A." Cell Struct. Funct. 16: 383-390.
	
Yoshida, M. (1991). "Function of the carbohydrates in contact site A glycoprotein of Dictyostelium discoideum affected by tunicamycin." Compar. Biochem. Physiol. 98B: 563-568.
	
Yoshida, H., et al. (1991). "DC6, a novel type of Dictyostelium discoideum gene regulated by secreted factors but not by cAMP." Differentiation 46: 161-166.
	
Yamauchi, K. (1991). "The sequence flanking translational initiation site in protozoa." Nucl. Acids Res. 19: 2715-2720.
	
Xie, Y. J., et al. (1991). "A possible role for DIF-2 in the formation of stalk cells during Dictyostelium development." Dev. Biol. 145: 195-200.
	
Wuestehube, L. J., et al. (1991). "F-actin affinity chromatography of detergent-solubilized plasma membranes - Purification and initial characterization of ponticulin from Dictyostelium discoideum." Meth. Enzymol. 196: 47-65.
	
Wu, L. J. and P. N. Devreotes (1991). "Dictyostelium transiently expresses eight distinct G-protein alpha-subunits during its developmental program." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 179: 1141-1147.
	
Wright, B. E. (1991). "Construction of kinetic models to understand metabolism in vivo." J. Chrom. 566: 309-326.
	
Wood, C. A., et al. (1991). "Effects of normal and mutant Ras genes on inositol lipid metabolism in Dictyostelium." Cell. Signal. 3: 473-482.
	
Winckler, T., et al. (1991). "Ca2+/calmodulin-binding proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum." Res. Microbiol. 142: 509-519.
	
Williams, J. G. and K. A. Jermyn (1991). Cell sorting and positional differentiation during Dictyostelium morphogenesis. Cell-Cell Interactions in Early Development. J. Gerhart. New York, Wiley-Liss: 261-272.
	
Williams, J. G. (1991). "Regulation of cellular differentiation during Dictyostelium morphogenesis." Curr. Opin. Genet. Devel. 1: 358-362.
	
Wiesmuller, L., et al. (1991). "Purification and cDNA-derived sequence of adenylosuccinate synthetase from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 266: 2480-2485.
	
Whitbread, J. A., et al. (1991). "Evidence for the presence of a growth factor in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Genet. 12: 78-81.
	
Wessels, D., et al. (1991). "Myosin IB null mutants of Dictyostelium exhibit abnormalities in motility." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 20: 301-315.
	
Weeks, G. and J. D. Gross (1991). "Potential morphogens involved in pattern formation during Dictyostelium differentiation." Biochem. Cell Biol. 69: 608-.
	
Wallraff, E. and G. Gerisch (1991). "Screening for Dictyostelium mutants defective in cytoskeletal proteins by colony immunoblotting." Meth. Enzymol. 196: 334-348.
	
Vasiliev, J. M. (1991). Polarization of pseudopodial activities: cytoskeletal mechanism. (Commentary). J. Cell Sci. 98: 1-4.
	
VanWye, J. D., et al. (1991). "Species-specific patterns of DNA bending and sequence." Nucl. Acids Res. 19: 5253-5261.
	
van Ments-Cohen, M., et al. (1991). "Kinetics and nucleotide specificity of a surface cAMP binding site in Dictyostelium discoideum, which is not down-regulated by cAMP." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 82: 9-14.
	
van Lookeren Campagne, M. M., et al. (1991). "Functional cloning of a Dictyostelium discoideum cDNA encoding GMP synthetase." J. Biol. Chem. 266: 16448-16452.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M., et al. (1991). "Sensory transduction in eukaryotes - a comparison between Dictyostelium and vertebrate cells." Eur. J. Biochem. 195: 289-303.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M. (1991). Transmembrane signal transduction pathways in Dictyostelium. Advances in Second Messenger and Phosphoprotein Research. P. Greengard and G. A. Robison. New York, Raven Press: 185-226.
	
van Duijn, B. and K. Inouye (1991). "Regulation of movement speed by intracellular pH during Dictyostelium discoideum chemotaxis." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 88: 4951-4955.
	
Vadell, E., et al. (1991). Soil dictyostelids as indicators of human disturbance. IV. Tikal, 1000 years later. International Conference on Agriculture and the Environment.
	
Urushihara, H., et al. (1991). "Isolation and characterization of Dictyostelium mutants defective in sexual cell fusion." Devel. Growth Differ. 33: 517-524.
	
Um, H. D. and C. Klein (1991). "Dual role of GDP in the regulation of the levels of p36 phosphorylation in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Prot. Chem. 10: 391-401.
	
Uchiyama, S., et al. (1991). "Isozymes of ribonuclease and the changes in their relative levels during development in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Cell Biol. 69: 84-87.
	
Tsang, A., et al. (1991). "Biochemical and genetic characterization of a rapid-development strain in Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 47: 1-7.
	
Trybus, K. M. (1991). "Assembly of cytoplasmic and smooth muscle myosins." Curr. Opin. Cell Biol. 3: 105-111.
	
Truong, T. N. (1991). The regulation of the activity of Dictyostelium myosin. Kingston, ON (Canada), Queen's University at Kingston: 118.
	
Traynor, D. and R. R. Kay (1991). "The DIF-1 signaling system in Dictyostelium - metabolism of the signal." J. Biol. Chem. 266: 5291-5297.
	
Tirlapur, U. K., et al. (1991). "Spatial variation of sequestered calcium in the multicellular stage of Dictyostelium discoideum as assayed by chlortetracycline fluorescence." Differentiation 48: 137-146.
	
Tasaka, M. (1991). "Developmental regulation of expression of prespore-specific genes in Dictyostelium discoideum." Bot. Mag. Tokyo 104: 359-370.
	
Tan, J. L. and J. A. Spudich (1991). "Characterization and bacterial expression of the Dictyostelium myosin light chain kinase cDNA - identification of an autoinhibitory domain." J. Biol. Chem. 266: 16044-16049.
	
Takeuchi, I. (1991). Cell sorting and pattern formation in Dictyostelium discoideum. Cell-Cell Interactions in Early Development. J. Gerhart. New York, Wiley-Liss: 249-259.
	
Swanson, A. R. and J. C. Cavender (1991). Soil dictyostelids as indicators of human disturbance. III. Response of dictyostelids to forest destruction in Central America. International Conference on Agriculture and the Environment.
	
Sutoh, K., et al. (1991). "Site-directed mutations of Dictyostelium actin - disruption of a negative charge cluster at the N-terminus." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 88: 7711-7714.
	
Sun, T. J. and P. N. Devreotes (1991). "Gene targeting of the aggregation stage cAMP receptor cAR1 in Dictyostelium." Genes Devel. 5: 572-582.
	
Stephenson, S. L., et al. (1991). "Cellular slime molds in soils of Alaskan tundra, U.S.A." Arctic Alpine Res. 23: 104-107.
	
Stephens, L. R., et al. (1991). "myo-Inositol pentakisphosphates. Structure, biological occurrence and phosphorylation to myo-inositol hexakisphosphate." Biochem. J. 275: 485-499.
	
Steinbock, O., et al. (1991). "Quantitative analysis of periodic chemotaxis in aggregation patterns of Dictyostelium discoideum." Physica D 49: 233-239.
	
Steel, L. F. and A. Jacobson (1991). "Sequence elements that affect messenger RNA translational activity in developing Dictyostelium cells." Dev. Genet. 12: 98-103.
	
Springer, W. R. (1991). "A method for quantifying radioactivity associated with protein in silver-stained polyacrylamide gels." Anal. Biochem. 195: 172-176.
	
Sonnemann, J., et al. (1991). "A ribosomal calmodulin-binding protein from Dictyostelium." J. Biol. Chem. 266: 23091-23096.
	
Snaar-Jagalska, B. E., et al. (1991). "Activation of a pertussis-toxin-sensitive guanine-nucleotide-binding regulatory protein during desensitization of Dictyostelium discoideum cells to chemotactic signals." Eur. J. Biochem. 195: 715-721.
	
Smith, S. S. and D. I. Ratner (1991). "Lack of 5-methylcytosine in Dictyostelium discoideum DNA." Biochem. J. 277: 273-275.
	
Singleton, C. K., et al. (1991). "Structure, expression, and regulation of members of the developmentally controlled V-gene and H-gene classes from Dictyostelium." Dev. Genet. 12: 88-97.
	
Simon, M. N., et al. (1991). Expression in E. coli of mutated R subunits of the cAMP-dependent protein kinase from Dictyostelium discoideum. Cellular Regulation by Protein Phosphorylation. L. M. G. Heilmeyer Jr. Berlin, Springer-Verlag: 107-111.
	
Siegert, F. and C. J. Weijer (1991). "Analysis of optical density wave propagation and cell movement in the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Physica D 49: 224-232.
	
Sharkey, D. J. and R. Kornfeld (1991). "Developmental regulation of asparagine-linked oligosaccharide synthesis in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 266: 18485-18497.
	
Sharkey, D. J. and R. Kornfeld (1991). "Developmental regulation of processing alpha-mannosidases and intersecting N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 266: 18477-18484.
	
Schulkes, C. C. G. M., et al. (1991). Guanylate cyclase in signal transduction of Dictyostelium discoideum. Biological signal transduction. (NATO ASI Series H, Cell Biology). E. M. Ross and K. W. A. Wirtz. Berlin, Springer-Verlag: 497-509.
	
Schenk, P. W., et al. (1991). "Involvement of cyclic AMP cell surface receptors and G-proteins in signal transduction during slug migration of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 145: 110-118.
	
Schatzle, J., et al. (1991). "Developmental regulation of the alpha-mannosidase gene in Dictyostelium discoideum - control is at the level of transcription and is affected by cell density." Mol. Cell. Biol. 11: 3339-3347.
	
Schaap, P. (1991). Intercellular interactions during Dictyostelium development. Microbial Cell-Cell Interactions. M. Dworkin. Washington, DC, Am. Soc. Microbiol.: 147-178.
	
Saxe III, C. L., et al. (1991). "Expression of a cAMP receptor gene of Dictyostelium and evidence for a multigene family." Genes Devel. 5: 1-8.
	
Saxe III, C. L., et al. (1991). "Multiple genes for cell surface cAMP receptors in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Genet. 12: 6-13.
	
Sauterer, R. A., et al. (1991). "Purification and characterization of aginactin, a newly identified agonist-regulated actin-capping protein from Dictyostelium amoebae." J. Biol. Chem. 266: 24533-24539.
	
Sameshima, M., et al. (1991). "Relation of nucleolar structure and position to the cytoplasmic microtubule system in Dictyostelium." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 18: 293-303.
	
Sadiq, M. F. and C. D. Town (1991). "Characterization and complementation analysis of sporogenous mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Genet. 12: 272-280.
	
Robbins, S. M., et al. (1991). "Ras-related genes in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Genet. 12: 147-153.
	
Robbins, S. M. (1991). Characterization of a Ras and a Ras-related gene and their developmental expression in the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum. Vancouver, BC (Canada), The University of British Columbia: 185.
	
Rizzuto, R., et al. (1991). "Nucleotide sequence of a cDNA coding for the mitochondrial precursor protein of cytochrome-C oxidase subunit-IV from the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1090: 125-128.
	
Rizzuto, R., et al. (1991). "Characterization of a cDNA encoding subunit-VI of cytochrome-C oxidase from the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1089: 386-388.
	
Rizzuto, R., et al. (1991). "The most conserved nuclear-encoded polypeptide of cytochrome-c oxidase is the putative zinc-binding subunit - primary structure of subunit-V from the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1129: 100-104.
	
Richardson, J. M. (1991). The biochemical and molecular analysis of lysosomal enzyme processing and localization in Dictyostelium discoideum. Shreveport, LA, Louisiana State University Medical Center: 238.
	
Richardson, D. L., et al. (1991). "A prespore gene, Dd31, expressed during culmination of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 144: 269-280.
	
Reymond, C. D. and N. A. Thompson (1991). "Analysis of the multiple transcripts of the Dd ras gene during Dictyostelium discoideum development." Dev. Genet. 12: 139-146.
	
Rathi, A., et al. (1991). "Induction of gene expression in Dictyostelium by prestarvation factor, a factor secreted by growing cells." Dev. Genet. 12: 82-87.
	
Ramji, D. P., et al. (1991). "Sequence and expression analysis of a cAMP-responsive gene regulated during late development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Microbiol. 5: 427-432.
	
Ramagopal, S. (1991). "Differences in accumulation and phosphorylation of proteins in vegetatively growing cells of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Cell Biol. 69: 751-753.
	
Ramagopal, S. (1991). "Covalent modifications of ribosomal proteins in growing and aggregation-competent Dictyostelium discoideum: phosphorylation and methylation." Biochem. Cell Biol. 69: 263-268.
	
Proffitt, J. A., et al. (1991). "A developmentally regulated gene encodes the Dictyostelium homolog of yeast ribosomal protein S4 and mammalian LLRep3 proteins." Nucl. Acids Res. 19: 3867-3873.
	
Prieto, J., et al. (1991). "Dictyostelium discoideum acidic ribosomal phosphoproteins - identification and in vitro phosphorylation." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1115: 6-14.
	
Prieto, J., et al. (1991). "Nucleotide sequence of a cDNA encoding ribosomal protein-P0 in Dictyostelium discoideum." Nucl. Acids Res. 19: 1342.
	
Prieto, J., et al. (1991). "Nucleotide sequence of a cDNA encoding acidic ribosomal phosphoprotein-P2 in Dictyostelium discoideum." Nucl. Acids Res. 19: 1341.
	
Prieto, J., et al. (1991). "Nucleotide sequence of a cDNA encoding ribosomal acidic phosphoprotein-P1 from Dictyostelium discoideum - identification of a novel carboxy-terminal sequence in A-proteins." Nucl. Acids Res. 19: 1340.
	
Pollenz, R. S. and R. L. Chisholm (1991). "Dictyostelium discoideum essential myosin light chain - gene structure and characterization." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 20: 83-94.
	
Pollenz, R. S. (1991). The myosin essential light chain of Dictyostelium discoidium: genetic characterization and functional consequences of decreased protein expression in vivo and in vitro. Evanston, IL, Northwestern University: 161.
	
Peters, D. J. M., et al. (1991). "Control of cAMP-induced gene expression by divergent signal transduction pathways." Dev. Genet. 12: 25-34.
	
Peters, D. J. M., et al. (1991). "Selective induction of gene expression and second-messenger accumulation in Dictyostelium discoideum by the partial chemotactic antagonist 8-p-chlorophenylthioadenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 88: 9219-9223.
	
Patterson, B., et al. (1991). "Molecular genetic approaches to the cytoskeleton in Dictyostelium." Curr. Opin. Genet. Devel. 1: 378-382.
	
Pamula, F. and J. F. Wheldrake (1991). "The NAD-dependent glutamate dehydrogenase from Dictyostelium discoideum - purification and properties." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 291: 225-230.
	
Pamula, F. and J. F. Wheldrake (1991). "Purification and properties of the NADP-dependent glutamate dehydrogenase from Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cell. Biochem. 105: 85-92.
	
Padh, H., et al. (1991). "Reconstitution of the association of endocytic vacuoles and acidosomes from Dictyostelium." J. Biol. Chem. 266: 12123-12126.
	
Padh, H., et al. (1991). "Endosomes are acidified by association with discrete proton-pumping vacuoles in Dictyostelium." J. Biol. Chem. 266: 5514-5520.
	
Oyama, M., et al. (1991). "Regulation of guanylate cyclase by a guanine nucleotide binding protein, Galpha2, in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 176: 1245-1249.
	
Oyama, M., et al. (1991). "Role of a guanine nucleotide binding protein, Galpha 2, in regulation of adenylate cyclase in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 175: 55-60.
	
Oyama, M. and K. Kubota (1991). "Inhibition by EDTA and enhancement by divalent cations or polyamines of the dithiothreitol-induced activation of adenylate cyclase in the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1092: 85-88.
	
Oyama, M. (1991). "Reducing reagent-induced activation of guanylate cyclase in the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biochem. 110: 934-938.
	
Oyama, M. (1991). "Reducing reagent-induced activation of adenylate cyclase in the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biochem. 110: 928-933.
	
North, M. J., et al. (1991). "Cysteine proteinase changes during microcyst formation and germination in Polysphondylium pallidum." Curr. Microbiol. 22: 59-63.
	
North, M. J. and D. A. Cotter (1991). "Regulation of cysteine proteinases during different pathways of differentiation in cellular slime molds." Dev. Genet. 12: 154-162.
	
North, M. J. and D. A. Cotter (1991). "Analysis of Dictyostelium mucoroides macrocysts by using a simple breakage and fractionation procedure." Appl. Env. Microbiol. 57: 307-310.
	
Nolta, K. V., et al. (1991). "Acidosomes from Dictyostelium - initial biochemical characterization." J. Biol. Chem. 266: 18318-18323.
	
Noegel, A. A. and M. Schleicher (1991). "Phenotypes of cells with cytoskeletal mutations." Curr. Opin. Cell Biol. 3: 18-26.
	
Mutzel, R. (1991). "Cellular slime molds: why and how to become pluricellular." Bull. Inst. Pasteur 89: 51-58.
	
Morio, T., et al. (1991). "Transcriptional regulation of cell-type-enriched genes during development in Dictyostelium discoideum analyzed by nuclear run-on assays." Devel. Growth Differ. 33: 293-298.
	
Mizutani, A., et al. (1991). "Induction of cell fusion by a factor released by the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium pallidum." Arch. Microbiol. 156: 159-162.
	
Milne, J. L. and M. B. Coukell (1991). "A Ca2+ transport system associated with the plasma membrane of Dictyostelium discoideum is activated by different chemoattractant receptors." J. Cell Biol. 112: 103-110.
	
Meyer, T. (1991). "Cell signaling by second messenger waves." Cell 64: 675-678.
	
Menz, S., et al. (1991). "Mutant analysis suggests that cyclic GMP mediates the cyclic AMP-induced Ca2+ uptake in Dictyostelium." J. Cell Sci. 99: 187-191.
	
Meinke, A., et al. (1991). "Bacterial cellulose-binding domain-like sequences in eucaryotic polypeptides." Protein Seq. Data Anal. 4: 349-353.
	
Medley, Q. G., et al. (1991). "Purification and characterization of myosin-II heavy chain kinase-A from Dictyostelium." Meth. Enzymol. 196: 23-34.
	
McPherson III, C. E. (1991). The structure and regulation of a vegetative specific gene which is required for proper development in Dictyostelium discoideum. Nashville, TN, Vanderbilt University: 224.
	
McNally, E., et al. (1991). "Expression of myosin and actin in Escherichia coli." Meth. Enzymol. 196: 368-389.
	
May, T., et al. (1991). "A cis-acting element responsible for early gene induction by extracellular cAMP in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mech. Devel. 33: 147-156.
	
Manstein, D. J., et al. (1991). "Manipulation and expression of molecular motors in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. Suppl. 14: 63-65.
	
Mann, S. K. O. and R. A. Firtel (1991). "A developmentally regulated, putative serine/threonine protein kinase is essential for development in Dictyostelium." Mech. Devel. 35: 89-101.
	
Mann, S. K. O. and R. A. Firtel (1991). "Regulation of gene expression and cell-type differentiation via signal transduction processes in Dictyostelium." Adv. Regul. Cell Growth 2: 9-39.
	
Maniak, M. and W. Nellen (1991). "3' Processing in Dictyostelium - unusual sequence requirements and interaction with a downstream promoter." Mol. Microbiol. 5: 245-251.
	
Malliaros, D. P., et al. (1991). "Purification and characterization of developmentally regulated AMP deaminase from Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 46: 153-160.
	
MacWilliams, H. K. (1991). "Models of pattern formation in Hydra and Dictyostelium." Semin. Dev. Biol. 2: 119-128.
	
Lydan, M. A. and D. H. O'Day (1991). "Endogenous biotinylated proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 174: 990-994.
	
Louvion, J. F., et al. (1991). "Two independent promoters as well as 5'untranslated regions regulate Dd ras expression in Dictyostelium." Nucl. Acids Res. 19: 6133-6138.
	
Loomis, W. F. and D. L. Fuller (1991). "Antisense RNA inhibition of expression of a pair of tandemly repeated genes results in a delay in cell-cell adhesion in Dictyostelium." Antisense Res. Devel. 1: 255-260.
	
Liu, G. and P. C. Newell (1991). "Evidence that cyclic GMP may regulate the association of myosin-II heavy chain with the cytoskeleton by inhibiting its phosphorylation." J. Cell Sci. 98: 483-490.
	
Lewis, R. (1991). A family of cAMP receptor subtypes helps solve a slime mold mystery. J. NIH Res. 3: 59-62.
	
Levine, H. and W. Reynolds (1991). "Streaming instability of aggregating slime mold amoebae." Phys. Rev. Lett. 66: 2400-2403.
	
Leiting, B. and A. A. Noegel (1991). "The ble gene of Streptoalloteichus hindustanus as a new selectable marker for Dictyostelium discoideum confers resistance to phleomycin." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 180: 1403-1407.
	
Leblanc, J. M. and L. A. Leinwand (1991). "The diversity of myosin-based contractile systems in eukaryotic cells." Am. Zool. 31: 514-521.
	
Landolt, J. C. and S. L. Stephenson (1991). "Cellular slime molds from tropical rain forests of eastern Peru." Cryptogamic Botany 2/3: 258-260.
	
Kumagai, A., et al. (1991). "Molecular genetic analysis of two Galpha protein subunits in Dictyostelium." J. Biol. Chem. 266: 1220-1228.
	
Kuczmarski, E. R., et al. (1991). "Stopped-flow measurement of cytoskeletal contraction: Dictyostelium myosin II is specifically required for contraction of amoeba cytoskeletons." J. Cell Biol. 114: 1191-1199.
	
Kubohara, Y. and K. Okamoto (1991). "Wheat germ agglutinin binding proteins in the cellular slime moulds Dictyostelium and Polysphondylium." J. Gen. Microbiol. 137: 1571-1575.
	
Kincaid, R. L. (1991). Signaling mechanisms in microorganisms - common themes in the evolution of signal transduction pathways. Advances in Second Messenger and Phosphoprotein Research. P. Greengard and G. A. Robison. New York, Raven Press: 165-184.
	
Kimmel, A. R. and R. A. Firtel (1991). "cAMP signal transduction pathways regulating development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Curr. Opin. Genet. Devel. 1: 383-390.
	
Ken, R. (1991). Functional analysis of ribosomal protein gene promoter regions in Dictyostelium discoideum (transcription). Nashville, TN, Vanderbilt University: 177.
	
Kalpaxis, D., et al. (1991). "Positive selection for Dictyostelium discoideum mutants lacking UMP synthase activity based on resistance to 5-fluoroorotic acid." Mol. Gen. Genet. 225: 492-500.
	
Jones, J. G., et al. (1991). "Molecular analysis of amoeboid chemotaxis: parallel observations in amoeboid phagocytes and metastatic tumor cells." Experientia Suppl. (EXS) 59: 1-16.
	
Johnson, R. L., et al. (1991). "Overexpression of the cAMP receptor 1 in growing Dictyostelium cells." Biochemistry 30: 6982-6986.
	
Jermyn, K. A. and J. G. Williams (1991). "An analysis of culmination in Dictyostelium using prestalk and stalk-specific cell autonomous markers." Development 111: 779-787.
	
Jensen, C. G., et al. (1991). "Analysis of microtubule arms and bridges in mitotic and interphase amebae of Dictyostelium discoideum." Eur. J. Cell Biol. 54: 121-131.
	
Jastorff, B., et al. (1991). Cyclic nucleotide metabolism as a target in chemotherapy. Proc. 3rd Int. Symp. Mol. Aspects Chemother. Gdansk, Poland. New York, Springer-Verlag: 57-87.
	
Ishikawa, T., et al. (1991). "Involvement of cell surface carbohydrates in the sexual cell fusion of Dictyostelium discoideum." Devel. Growth Differ. 33: 131-138.
	
Iijima, N., et al. (1991). "Involvement of cytoplasmic pH in the production of ethylene, a potent inducer of sexual development in Dictyostelium mucoroides." Protoplasma 160: 72-76.
	
Hulen, D., et al. (1991). "Production and specificity of monoclonal antibodies against calmodulin from Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 18: 113-122.
	
Hong, J. S. and N. K. Chang (1991). "Occurrence and distribution of cellular slime molds in relation to the coastal plant communities of islands near Inch'on." Korean J. Ecol. 14: 457-467.
	
Holmes, M. T. (1991). Ecological aspects of dictyostelids in forest soils of Tikal, Guatemala. Athens, OH, Ohio University.
	
Hogan, L. H. (1991). Developmental regulation of S4 and P0 ribosomal protein genes in Dictyostelium discoideum. Madison, WI, The University of Wisconsin - Madison: 168.
	
Hofmann, J., et al. (1991). "Transfer RNA genes from Dictyostelium discoideum are frequently associated with repetitive elements and contain consensus boxes in their 5'-flanking and 3'-flanking regions." J. Mol. Biol. 222: 537-552.
	
Hobbs, L. J. (1991). Fine structural analysis and determination of processing of asparagine-linked oligosaccharides of Dictyostelium discoideum. Washington, DC, Georgetown University: 296.
	
Hildebrandt, M., et al. (1991). "Structure, expression, and inactivation by gene disruption of the Dictyostelium discoideum prespore gene-EB4." Dev. Genet. 12: 163-169.
	
Hildebrandt, M. and W. Nellen (1991). "Library-independent cloning of genomic fragments adjacent to vector integration sites - isolation of the EB4-PSV gene from a Dictyostelium gene disruption transformant." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 181: 884-888.
	
Hildebrandt, M., et al. (1991). "The Dictyostelium discoideum EB4 gene product and a truncated mutant form of the protein are localized in prespore vesicles but absent from mature spores." Dev. Biol. 144: 212-214.
	
Haus, U., et al. (1991). "F-actin capping by Cap32/34 requires heterodimeric conformation and can be inhibited with PIP2." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 181: 833-839.
	
Haugwitz, M., et al. (1991). "Dictyostelium discoideum contains two profilin isoforms that differ in structure and function." J. Cell Sci. 100: 481-489.
	
Harwood, A. J., et al. (1991). "Unexpected localisation of cells expressing a prespore marker of Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 46: 7-13.
	
Haribabu, B., et al. (1991). "Signal transduction pathways involved in the expression of the uridine diphosphoglucose pyrophosphorylase gene of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Genet. 12: 35-44.
	
Haribabu, B. and R. P. Dottin (1991). "Homology cloning of protein kinase and phosphoprotein phosphatase sequences of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Genet. 12: 45-49.
	
Haribabu, B. and R. P. Dottin (1991). "Identification of a protein kinase multigene family of Dictyostelium discoideum - molecular cloning and expression of a cDNA encoding a developmentally regulated protein kinase." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 88: 1115-1119.
	
Hammer III, J. A. and G. Jung (1991). "Molecular cloning of protozoan myosin I heavy chain genes." J. Cell Sci. S14: 37-40.
	
Hagiwara, H. (1991). "Dictyostelium aureocephalum, a new dictyostelid cellular slime mold from Nepal." Bull. Natl. Sci. Mus. Tokyo, Ser. B 17: 103-107.
	
Hagiwara, H. (1991). "A new species and some new records of dictyostelid cellular slime molds from Oman." Bull. Natl. Sci. Mus. Tokyo 17: 109-121.
	
Hadwiger, J. A., et al. (1991). "Identification of Dictyostelium Galpha genes expressed during multicellular development." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 88: 8213-8217.
	
Hadjimichael, J. and E. F. Rossomando (1991). "Isolation and characterization of the protein phosphoamidates formed by a membrane bound adenylyl transferase reaction in Dictyostelium discoideum." Int. J. Biochem. 23: 535-539.
	
Hader, D. P. and B. Vollertsen (1991). "Phototactic orientation in Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae." Acta Protozoologica 30: 19-24.
	
Hader, D. P. and A. Hansel (1991). "Responses of Dictyostelium discoideum to multiple environmental stimuli." Botanica Acta 104: 200-205.
	
Haberstroh, L. M. (1991). The prespore gene SP60 of Dictyostelium discoideum: developmental regulation and cAMP induction. La Jolla, CA, University of California, San Diego (UCSD): 161.
	
Haberstroh, L., et al. (1991). "Developmental and spatial regulation of a Dictyostelium prespore gene - cis-acting elements and a cAMP-induced, developmentally regulated DNA binding activity." Development 113: 947-958.
	
Habata, Y. and K. Yanagisawa (1991). "Nuclear behavior in artificially induced multinuclear cells of Dictyostelium discoideum." Devel. Growth Differ. 33: 563-570.
	
Habata, Y., et al. (1991). "Possible existence of a light-inducible protein that inhibits sexual cell fusion in Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Struct. Funct. 16: 185-187.
	
Greiner, R.-A. (1991). Purification and characterization of folic acid deaminase from cell membranes of Dictyostelium discoideum. Konstanz, Univ. of Konstanz: 157.
	
Greenwood, M. and A. Tsang (1991). "Sequence and expression of annexin-VII of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1088: 429-432.
	
Grandori, R. and C. Sander (1991). "Identification by computer sequence analysis of transcriptional regulator proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum and Serratia marcescens." Nucl. Acids Res. 19: 2359-2362.
	
Gonzalez-Yanes, B. (1991). A novel fucosylation pathway in the cytosol of Dictyostelium discoideum. Gainesville, FL, University of Florida: 183.
	
Gonzalez, C. and M. Satre (1991). "Endocytosis in Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae - inhibition by cycloheximide and other inhibitors of protein synthesis." J. Cell Sci. 99: 535-543.
	
Gomer, R. H., et al. (1991). "A secreted 80x10(3)Mr protein mediates sensing of cell density and the onset of development in Dictyostelium." Development 112: 269-278.
	
Goldbeter, A. (1991). "Du codage par frequence des signeaux intercellulaires a l'ebauche d'une chronopharmacologie generalisee." Bull. Mem. Acad. R. Med. Belg. 146: 113-127.
	
Gibson, F. P., et al. (1991). "SPIF regulates spore coat protein synthesis by Dictyostelium discoideum at the translational level." J. Cell Sci. 100: 357-364.
	
Gerke, V. (1991). "Identification of a homologue for annexin-VII (synexin) in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 266: 1697-1700.
	
Gerisch, G., et al. (1991). "Genetic alteration of proteins in actin-based motility systems." Annu. Rev. Physiol. 53: 607-628.
	
Gayatri, R. and S. Chatterjee (1991). "Effects of chlorpromazine on growth and development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Microbios 68: 97-108.
	
Fukushima, S. and Y. Maeda (1991). "Whorl formation in Polysphondylium violaceum: Relevance to organization by cyclic AMP." Devel. Growth Differ. 33: 525-533.
	
Fukui, Y., et al. (1991). "Cell behavior and actomyosin organization in Dictyostelium during substrate exploration." Cell Struct. Funct. 16: 289-301.
	
Fukui, Y. and S. Inoue (1991). "Cell division in Dictyostelium with special emphasis on actomyosin organization in cytokinesis." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 18: 41-54.
	
Freeze, H. H. (1991). Developmental glycobiology of Dictyostelium discoideum. Cell surface carbohydrates and cell development. M. Fukuda. Boca Raton, CRC Press.
	
Franke, J., et al. (1991). "Cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase of Dictyostelium discoideum and its glycoprotein inhibitor: structure and expression of their genes." Dev. Genet. 12: 104-112.
	
Franek, K. J. (1991). Differential activity and secretion of multiple proteinases in vegetative amoebae and in germinating spores of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. Windsor, ON (Canada), University of Windsor: 176.
	
Francis, D., et al. (1991). "Three genes which affect founding of aggregations in Polysphondylium pallidum." Genetics 128: 563-569.
	
Fosnaugh, K. L. and W. F. Loomis (1991). "Coordinate regulation of the spore coat genes in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Genet. 12: 123-132.
	
Fontana, D. R., et al. (1991). "Cell-cell contact mediates cAMP secretion in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Genet. 12: 54-62.
	
Fontana, D. R., et al. (1991). "Dictyostelium discoideum lipids modulate cell-cell cohesion and cyclic AMP signaling." Mol. Cell. Biol. 11: 468-475.
	
Fisher, P. R., et al. (1991). "Oxidative metabolism and heat shock-enhanced chemiluminescence in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 99: 741-750.
	
Fisher, P. R. (1991). "The role of gaseous metabolites in phototaxis by Dictyostelium discoideum slugs." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 77: 117-120.
	
Firtel, R. A. (1991). "Signal transduction pathways controlling multicellular development in Dictyostelium." Trends Genet. (TIG) 7: 381-388.
	
Firtel, R. A. (1991). "Putting the G in development." Curr. Biol. 1: 91-93.
	
Fechheimer, M., et al. (1991). "Isolation and sequencing of cDNA clones encoding the Dictyostelium discoideum 30,000-dalton actin-bundling protein." J. Biol. Chem. 266: 2883-2889.
	
Fechheimer, M. and R. Furukawa (1991). "Preparation of 30,000-da actin cross-linking protein from Dictyostelium discoideum." Meth. Enzymol. 196: 84-91.
	
Europe-Finner, G. N., et al. (1991). "Accumulation of [3H]-inositol into inositol polyphosphates during development of Dictyostelium." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 181: 191-196.
	
Esch, R. K. and R. A. Firtel (1991). "cAMP and cell sorting control the spatial expression of a developmentally essential cell-type-specific ras gene in Dictyostelium." Genes Devel. 5: 9-21.
	
Esch, R. K. (1991). Expression of the developmentally-regulated, prestalk-specific Ras gene of Dictyostelium discoideum. La Jolla, CA, University of California, San Diego (UCSD): 141.
	
Epstein, I. R. (1991). "Spiral waves in chemistry and biology (Perspective)." Science 252: 67.
	
Ennis, H. L., et al. (1991). "Dictyostelium discoideum gene family contains a long internal amino acid repeat." Dev. Genet. 12: 133-138.
	
Eliott, S., et al. (1991). "The distribution of myosin II in Dictyostelium discoideum slug cells." J. Cell Biol. 115: 1267-1274.
	
Eichinger, L., et al. (1991). "Domain structure in actin-binding proteins - expression and functional characterization of truncated severin." J. Cell Biol. 112: 665-676.
	
Egelhoff, T. T., et al. (1991). "Molecular genetic tools for study of the cytoskeleton in Dictyostelium." Meth. Enzymol. 196: 319-334.
	
Egelhoff, T. T. and J. A. Spudich (1991). "Molecular genetics of cell migration - Dictyostelium as a model system." Trends Genet. (TIG) 7: 161-166.
	
Egelhoff, T. T., et al. (1991). "Spatial and temporal control of nonmuscle myosin localization - identification of a domain that is necessary for myosin filament disassembly in vivo." J. Cell Biol. 112: 677-688.
	
Dumas, C., et al. (1991). "Crystallization and preliminary X-ray diffraction studies of nucleoside diphosphate kinase from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Mol. Biol. 217: 239-240.
	
Dottin, R. P., et al. (1991). "Signal transduction and gene expression in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Genet. 12: 2-5.
	
Doring, V., et al. (1991). "Dictyostelium annexin-VII (synexin) - cDNA sequence and isolation of a gene disruption mutant." J. Biol. Chem. 266: 17509-17515.
	
Dingermann, T., et al. (1991). "Expression of human antithrombin-III in the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 35: 496-503.
	
Dharmawardhane, S., et al. (1991). "Compartmentalization and actin binding properties of ABP-50 - the elongation factor-1alpha of Dictyostelium." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 20: 279-288.
	
DeSilver, D. A., et al. (1991). "Effects of protein synthesis inhibition on the transcription and transcript stability of Dictyostelium prespore genes." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1089: 309-319.
	
de Priester, W. (1991). "Techniques for the visualisation of cytoskeletal components in Dictyostelium discoideum." Electron Microsc. Rev. 4: 343-376.
	
de Hostos, E. L., et al. (1991). "Coronin, an actin binding protein of Dictyostelium discoideum localized to cell surface projections, has sequence similarities to G protein beta subunits." EMBO J. 10: 4097-4104.
	
da Silva, A. M. and C. Klein (1991). "Biochemical and functional characterization of a glycolipid anchored cell adhesion molecule in Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Biol. Int. Reports 15: 1065-1082.
	
Curmi, P. M. G., et al. (1991). "Mechanism of force generation studied by neutron scattering." Adv. Biophys. 27: 131-142.
	
Cooke, S. V. (1991). A structure/function analysis of the role of glycoprotein-linked oligosaccharides in aggregation-stage cell cohesion in Dictyostelium discoideum. Washington, DC, Georgetown University: 251.
	
Condeelis, J. and A. L. Hall (1991). "Measurement of actin polymerization and cross-linking in agonist-stimulated cells." Meth. Enzymol. 196: 486-496.
	
Collins, J. H. (1991). "Myosin light chains and troponin C: structural and evolutionary relationships revealed by amino acid sequence comparisons." J. Muscle Res. Cell Motil. 12: 3-25.
	
Cishek, D. M., et al. (1991). "Towards the development of a technique for introducing aequorin into amoebae of Dictyostelium discoideum via electroporation." Biol. Bull. 181: 342-343.
	
Chia, C. P., et al. (1991). "Direct binding of F-actin to ponticulin, an integral plasma membrane glycoprotein." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 18: 164-179.
	
Chang, A. C. M., et al. (1991). "Bleomycin resistance as a selectable marker for transformation of the eukaryote, Dictyostelium discoideum." Gene 107: 165-170.
	
Champion, A., et al. (1991). "Immunodominant carbohydrate determinants in the multicellular stages of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 137: 2431-2438.
	
Ceccarelli, A., et al. (1991). "Positively and negatively acting signals regulating stalk cell and anterior-like cell differentiation in Dictyostelium." Cell 65: 983-989.
	
Cavender, J. C., et al. (1991). Soil dictyostelids as indicators of human disturbance. I. Slash and burn and its effect on soil dictyostelids (cellular slime molds) in the humid forest region of the Central African Republic. International Conference on Agriculture and the Environment.
	
Cavender, J. C. (1991). Soil dictyostelids as indicators of human disturbance. II. Recovery of cellular slime molds after cessation of agriculture on a New York State farm. International Conference on Agriculture and the Environment.
	
Caterina, M. J. and P. N. Devreotes (1991). "Molecular insights into eukaryotic chemotaxis." FASEB J. 5: 3078-3085.
	
Bussolino, F., et al. (1991). "Dictyostelium cells produce platelet-activating factor in response to cAMP." Eur. J. Biochem. 196: 609-616.
	
Bush IV, J. M. (1991). Molecular mechanisms regulating the processing, transport, and targeting of lysosomal enzymes in Dictyostelium discoideum. Shreveport, LA, Louisiana State University Medical Center: 196.
	
Burris, R. H. and E. H. Newcomb (1991). "Kenneth Bryan Raper, 1908-1987. A biographical memoir." Biographical Memoirs 60: 251-270.
	
Burki, E., et al. (1991). "Isolation of two genes encoding putative protein kinases regulated during Dictyostelium discoideum development." Gene 102: 57-65.
	
Bukenberger, M., et al. (1991). "Nuclear factors which bind to Dictyostelium discoideum transfer RNA genes." Curr. Genet. 20: 129-135.
	
Buhl, B. and H. K. MacWilliams (1991). "Cell sorting within the prestalk zone of Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 46: 147-152.
	
Browning, D. D. and D. H. O'Day (1991). "Concanavalin A and wheat germ agglutinin binding glycoproteins associated with cell fusion and zygote differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum: effects of calcium ions and tunicamycin on glycoprotein profiles." Biochem. Cell Biol. 69: 282-290.
	
Bronner, C. E. (1991). Genetic analysis of mutations affecting thymidine metabolism and DNA repair in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum (slime mold). University Park, PA, The Pennsylvania State University (Penn State): 128.
	
Bresnick, A. R. and J. Condeelis (1991). "Isolation of actin-binding proteins from Dictyostelium discoideum." Meth. Enzymol. 196: 70-83.
	
Bresnick, A. R. (1991). Analysis of the actin binding site of ABP-120 from Dictyostelium discoideum. New York, NY, Yeshiva University: 134.
	
Boose, J. A. and E. J. Henderson (1991). "Conditional intercellular cohesion in a Dictyostelium discoideum mutant which is temperature sensitive for correct processing of asparagine-linked oligosaccharides." Glycobiology 1: 295-305.
	
Bonner, J. T. (1991). Researches on cellular slime moulds - Selected papers of J.T. Bonner. Bangalore, India, Indian Academy of Sciences.
	
Bonfils, C., et al. (1991). "A 27-bp deletion is esponsible for the expression of a variant CABP1, a cyclic AMP-binding protein of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1088: 145-146.
	
Bominaar, A. A., et al. (1991). "Developmental regulation of the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate phosphatases in Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 46: 1-5.
	
Bominaar, A. A., et al. (1991). "Dynamics and function of the inositolcycle in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Genet. 12: 19-24.
	
Bominaar, A. A., et al. (1991). "Aberrant chemotaxis and differentiation in Dictyostelium mutant fgdC with a defective regulation of receptor-stimulated phosphoinositidase C." J. Cell Sci. 100: 825-831.
	
Blume, J. E. and H. L. Ennis (1991). "A Dictyostelium discoideum cellulase is a member of a spore germination-specific gene family." J. Biol. Chem. 266: 15432-15437.
	
Blumberg, D. D., et al. (1991). "Gene expression and chromatin structure in the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Genet. 12: 65-77.
	
Blumberg, D. D. (1991). "Dictyostelium discoideum - a simple eukaryotic microorganism with a complex network of regulation." Dev. Genet. 12: 63-64.
	
Blais, J. C. and R. Klein (1991). "Influence of target preparation in secondary ion mass spectrometry: molecular mass determination of a pterin isolated from Dictyostelium discoideum." Int. J. Mass Spectrom. Ion Proc. 107: 409-416.
	
Bivin, D. B., et al. (1991). "Cross-helix separation of tropomyosin molecules in acto-tropomyosin as determined by neutron scattering." Biophys. J. 59: 880-888.
	
Berks, M., et al. (1991). "Diffusible signal molecules controlling cell differentiation and patterning in Dictyostelium." Development Suppl.1: 131-139.
	
Benedict, M. A., et al. (1991). "Developmental protein synthesis is required for the transcription of Dictyostelium prespore genes." Dev. Genet. 12: 113-122.
	
Barisic, K., et al. (1991). "cDNA sequence of cyclophilin from Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Genet. 12: 50-53.
	
Bain, G. and A. Tsang (1991). "Disruption of the gene encoding the p34/31 polypeptides affects growth and development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Gen. Genet. 226: 59-64.
	
Bain, G., et al. (1991). "Isolation and characterization of cDNA clones encoding polypeptides related to a Dictyostelium discoideum cyclic AMP binding protein." J. Gen. Microbiol. 137: 501-508.
	
Anschutz, A., et al. (1991). "Regulation of protein phosphorylation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Genet. 12: 14-18.
	
Amewowor, D. H. A. K. and M. F. Madelin (1991). "Numbers of myxomycetes and associated microorganisms in the root zones of cabbage (Brassica oleracea) and broad bean (Vicia faba) in field plots." FEMS Microbiol. Ecol. 86: 69-82.
	
Amatayakul-Chantler, S., et al. (1991). "Cell surface oligosaccharides on Dictyostelium during development." J. Cell Sci. 99: 485-495.
	
Alexander, S., et al. (1991). "Translational control of discoidin lectin expression in drsA suppressor mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cell. Biol. 11: 3171-3179.
	
Albe, K. R. (1991). "Partial purification and kinetic characterization of transaldolase from Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Mycol. 15: 255-262.
	
Abe, T. and Y. Maeda (1991). "Cellular differentiation in submerged monolayers of Dictyostelium discoideum: possible functions of cytoplasmic Ca2+ and DIF." Devel. Growth Differ. 33: 469-478.
	
Yumura, S. and T. Kitanishi-Yumura (1990). "Immunoelectron microscopic studies of the ultrastructure of myosin filaments in Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Struct. Funct. 15: 343-354.
	
Yumura, S. and T. Kitanishi-Yumura (1990). "Fluorescence-mediated visualization of actin and myosin filaments in the contractile membrane-cytoskeleton complex of Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Struct. Funct. 15: 355-364.
	
Yao, Z. (1990). Stopped-flow analysis of Dictyostelium cytoskeleton contraction. Chicago, IL, The Herman M. Finch University of Health Sciences - The Chicago Medical School: 91.
	
Yang, F., et al. (1990). "Identification of an actin-binding protein from Dictyostelium as elongation factor 1a." Nature 347: 494-496.
	
Yang, F., et al. (1990). Actin regulates the protein synthetic activity of ABP-50, the EF-1alpha of Dictyostelium. Am. Soc. Cell Biol.
	
Yamada, Y. and K. Okamoto (1990). "Three steps in prespore differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum with different requirements of cellular interaction." Differentiation 44: 81-87.
	
Wurster, B., et al. (1990). Calcium oscillations in Dictyostelium discoideum. Calcium as an intracellular messenger in eucaryotic microbes. D. H. O'Day. Washington, D.C., Am. Soc. Microbiol.: 228-242.
	
Wurster, B. and R. R. Kay (1990). "New roles for DIF?  Effects on early development in Dictyostelium." Dev. Biol. 140: 189-195.
	
Wurster, B. (1990). "Novel oscillations in cell suspensions of Dictyostelium discoideum." Experientia 46: 1063-1065.
	
Wu, L. and J. Franke (1990). "A developmentally regulated and cAMP-repressible gene of Dictyostelium discoideum - cloning and expression of the gene encoding cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase inhibitor." Gene 91: 51-56.
	
Wright, B. E. and K. R. Albe (1990). A new method for estimating enzyme activity and control coefficient in vivo. Control of metabolic processes. A. Cornish-Bowden and M. L. Cardenas. New York, Plenum Press: 317-328.
	
Wolda, S. L., et al. (1990). "Molecular genetic analysis of cytoskeletal proteins in development and implications for the membrane skeleton." Semin. Cell Biol. 1: 401-410.
	
Witke, W. and A. A. Noegel (1990). "A single base exchange in an intron of the Dictyostelium discoideum alpha-actinin gene inhibits correct splicing of the RNA but allows transport to the cytoplasm and translation." J. Biol. Chem. 265: 34-39.
	
Wiesmuller, L., et al. (1990). "cDNA-derived sequence of UMP-CMP kinase from Dictyostelium discoideum and expression of the enzyme in Escherichia coli." J. Biol. Chem. 265: 6339-6345.
	
Widdowson, D. C. C., et al. (1990). "Developmental expression and characterization of the gene encoding spore coat protein sp60 in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Microbiol. 4: 951-960.
	
Wetterauer, B. and H. K. MacWilliams (1990). "A developmental shift in cell volume regulation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 45: 14-20.
	
West, C. M. and G. W. Erdos (1990). "Formation of the Dictyostelium spore coat." Dev. Genet. 11: 492-506.
	
Wessels, D. E. (1990). The role of actin and myosin in intracellular particle movement, cell motility and cell shape in Dictyostelium chemotaxis. Iowa City, IA, The University of Iowa: 303.
	
Wessels, D. and D. R. Soll (1990). "Myosin II heavy chain null mutant of Dictyostelium exhibits defective intracellular particle movement." J. Cell Biol. 111: 1137-1148.
	
Way, M. and A. Weeds (1990). Actin-binding proteins. Cytoskeletal ups and downs. (News and Views). Nature. 344: 292-294.
	
Wanner, R. and B. Wurster (1990). "Cyclic GMP-activated protein kinase from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1053: 179-184.
	
Wang, M., et al. (1990). "Cytoplasmic acidification facilitates but does not mediate DIF-induced prestalk gene expression in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 140: 182-188.
	
Wallet, V., et al. (1990). "Dictyostelium nucleoside diphosphate kinase highly homologous to Nm23 and Awd proteins involved in mammalian tumor metastasis and Drosophila development." J. Natl. Cancer Inst. 82: 1199-1202.
	
Vocke, C. D. and E. C. Cox (1990). "Analysis of developmentally expressed antigens in Polysphondylium pallidum." Dev. Genet. 11: 427-438.
	
Vauti, F., et al. (1990). "Regulation of the discoidin-Igamma-gene in Dictyostelium discoideum - identification of individual promoter elements mediating induction of transcription and repression by cyclic AMP." Mol. Cell. Biol. 10: 4080-4088.
	
van Duijn, B. and M. Wang (1990). "Chemoattractant-induced membrane hyperpolarization in Dictyostelium discoideum - a possible role for cyclic GMP." FEBS Lett. 275: 201-204.
	
van Duijn, B., et al. (1990). "Normal chemotaxis in Dictyostelium discoideum cells with a depolarized plasma membrane potential." J. Cell Sci. 95: 177-183.
	
van der Kaay, J., et al. (1990). "Increased conversion of phosphatidylinositol to phosphatidylinositol phosphate in Dictyostelium cells expressing a mutated ras gene." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 87: 9197-9201.
	
Urushihara, H., et al. (1990). "Cell fusion promoting factor common to homothallic and heterothallic mating system in Dictyostelium discoideum." Devel. Growth Differ. 32: 111-116.
	
Toyoshima, Y. Y., et al. (1990). "The myosin step size: measurement of the unit displacement per ATP hydrolyzed in an in vitro assay." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 87: 7130-7134.
	
Ti, Z. C., et al. (1990). "Purification of a membrane glycoprotein with an inositol-containing phospholipid anchor from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biotechnol. 16: 233-244.
	
Tasaka, M., et al. (1990). "Isolation and characterization of spore coat protein (sp96) gene of Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Differ. Devel. 31: 1-10.
	
Tao, Y. P. and C. Klein (1990). "Properties of CAR-kinase: the enzyme that phosphorylates the cAMP chemotactic receptor of D. discoideum." J. Prot. Chem. 9: 565-572.
	
Tao, Y. P. and C. Klein (1990). "Localization of functional domains of the cAMP chemotactic receptor of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 265: 15584-15589.
	
Tanaka, Y., et al. (1990). "ORF209 of Dictyostelium discoideum mitochondrial DNA has a homologue in chloroplast DNA." Plant Mol. Biol. 15: 659-660.
	
Tan, J. L. and J. A. Spudich (1990). "Dictyostelium myosin light chain kinase - purification and characterization." J. Biol. Chem. 265: 13818-13824.
	
Tan, J. L. and J. A. Spudich (1990). "Developmentally regulated protein-tyrosine kinase genes in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cell. Biol. 10: 3578-3583.
	
Takemoto, K., et al. (1990). "cAMP regulation of the expression of prespore-specific genes, SP96 and DP87, in disaggregated slug cells of Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Differ. Devel. 31: 89-96.
	
Szymkowski, D. E. and R. A. Deering (1990). "Identification and characterization of a Dictyostelium discoideum ribosomal protein gene." Nucl. Acids Res. 18: 4695-4701.
	
Szymkowski, D. E. (1990). A ribosomal protein gene and its product from the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. University Park, PA, The Pennsylvania State University (Penn State): 98.
	
Suzuki, K. and K. Yanagisawa (1990). "Purification and characterization of gp138, a cell surface glycoprotein involved in the sexual cell fusion of Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Differ. Devel. 30: 35-42.
	
Sun, T. J., et al. (1990). "Surface cAMP receptors mediate multiple responses during development in Dictyostelium: evidenced by antisense mutagenesis." J. Cell Biol. 110: 1549-1554.
	
Stephens, L. R., et al. (1990). "A myo-inositol D-3 hydroxykinase activity in Dictyostelium." Biochem. J. 272: 201-210.
	
Stephens, L. R. and R. F. Irvine (1990). "Stepwise phosphorylation of myo-inositol leading to myo-inositol hexakisphosphate in Dictyostelium." Nature 346: 580-583.
	
Springer, W. R. and J. A. Ahern (1990). "An anticarbohydrate monoclonal antibody inhibits cell-cell adhesion in many species of Dictyostelium but not of Polysphondylium." Exp. Cell Res. 186: 197-202.
	
Soll, D. R., et al. (1990). "Intracellular vesicle movement, cAMP and myosin II in Dictyostelium." Dev. Genet. 11: 341-353.
	
Snaar-Jagalska, B. E. and P. J. M. van Haastert (1990). "Pertussis toxin inhibits cAMP-induced desensitization of adenylate cyclase in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cell. Biochem. 92: 177-189.
	
Slade, M. B., et al. (1990). "The sequence and organization of Ddp2, a high-copy-number nuclear plasmid of Dictyostelium discoideum." Plasmid 24: 195-207.
	
Siu, C. H. and R. K. Kamboj (1990). "Cell-cell adhesion and morphogenesis in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Genet. 11: 377-387.
	
Siu, C. H. (1990). "Cell-cell adhesion molecules in Dictyostelium." Bioessays 12: 357-362.
	
Shariff, A. and E. J. Luna (1990). "Dictyostelium discoideum plasma membranes contain an actin-nucleating activity that requires ponticulin, an integral membrane glycoprotein." J. Cell Biol. 110: 681-692.
	
Schweiger, A., et al. (1990). "Phosphotyrosine-containing proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 268: 199-202.
	
Schleicher, M., et al. (1990). "Ca2(+)-binding proteins as components of the cytoskeleton." Adv. Exp. Med. Biol. 269: 99-102.
	
Saxe, S. A. and A. R. Kimmel (1990). "SAS1 and SAS2, GTP-binding protein genes in Dictyostelium discoideum with sequence similarities to essential genes in Saccharomyces cerevisiae." Mol. Cell. Biol. 10: 2367-2378.
	
Ruppel, K. M., et al. (1990). "Purification of a functional recombinant myosin fragment from Dictyostelium discoideum." Ann. NY Acad. Sci. 582: 147-155.
	
Rupes, I. (1990). "Cytoskeletal similarities. [letter]." Nature 345: 119.
	
Robbins, S. M., et al. (1990). "A ras-related gene from the lower eukaryote Dictyostelium that is highly conserved relative to the human rap genes." Nucl. Acids Res. 18: 5265-5269.
	
Rizzuto, R., et al. (1990). "Nucleotide sequence of the cDNA encoding subunit-VIIe of cytochrome-C oxidase from the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Nucl. Acids Res. 18: 6711.
	
Riley, B. B. and S. L. Barclay (1990). "Ammonia promotes accumulation of intracellular cAMP in differentiating amoebae of Dictyostelium discoideum." Development 109: 715-722.
	
Riley, B. B. and S. L. Barclay (1990). "Conditions that alter intracellular cAMP levels affect expression of the cAMP phosphodiesterase gene in Dictyostelium." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 87: 4746-4750.
	
Riley, B. B. (1990). The role of intracellular cyclic-AMP in regulating cell fate in Dictyostelium discoideum. Madison, WI, The University of Wisconsin - Madison: 254.
	
Richards, A. J., et al. (1990). "Cell-type-specific genes expressed late in Dictyostelium development show markedly different responses to 3'5' cyclic AMP." Mol. Microbiol. 4: 1279-1291.
	
Ramji, D. P., et al. (1990). "Two cyclic AMP-regulated genes from Dictyostelium discoideum encode homologous proteins." Mol. Microbiol. 4: 129-136.
	
Ramagopal, S. (1990). "Subcellular distribution of ribosomal proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Cell Biol. 68: 839-845.
	
Ramagopal, S. (1990). "Induction of cell-specific ribosomal proteins in aggregation-competent nonmorphogenetic Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Cell Biol. 68: 1281-1287.
	
Pogge-von Strandmann, R. and R. R. Kay (1990). "Position-dependent regulation of the prestalk-prespore pattern in Dictyostelium slugs." Dev. Genet. 11: 447-452.
	
Podolski, J. L. and T. L. Steck (1990). "Length distribution of F-actin in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 265: 1312-1318.
	
Pitt, G. S., et al. (1990). "G protein-linked signal transduction in aggregating Dictyostelium." Soc. Gen. Physiol. Ser. 45: 125-131.
	
Pitt, G. S., et al. (1990). "Mechanisms of excitation and adaptation in Dictyostelium." Semin. Cell Biol. 1: 99-104.
	
Patton, W. F., et al. (1990). "Analysis of plasma membrane protein changes in Dictyostelium discoideum during concanavalin A induced receptor redistribution using two-dimensional gel electrophoresis." Electrophoresis 11: 79-85.
	
Parissenti, A. M. and M. B. Coukell (1990). "Effects of DNA and synthetic oligodeoxyribonucleotides on the binding properties of a cGMP-binding protein from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1040: 294-300.
	
Pang, A. T. (1990). On simulating and visualizing nonlinear distributed parameter systems using massively parallel computers (parallel processing, slime molds, cardiac muscle). Los Angeles, CA, University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA): 185.
	
Pamula, F. and J. F. Wheldrake (1990). "Activation of the NADH-dependent glutamate dehydrogenase during morphogenesis of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Int. 20: 623-631.
	
Oyama, M., et al. (1990). "Involvement of protein kinase(s) in the intracellular signal transduction pathways for activation and adaptation of adenylate cyclase in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 167: 767-771.
	
Ospina, B. and M. Fernandez-Renart (1990). "Characterization of 3 casein kinases yype-I from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Biophys. Arch. 1052: 483-488.
	
Ochiai, H., et al. (1990). "Recovery of the contact site-A glycoprotein of Dictyostelium discoideum from sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel and characteristics of monoclonal antibodies against the recovered protein." Electrophoresis 11: 856-860.
	
O'Halloran, T. J. and J. A. Spudich (1990). "Genetically engineered truncated myosin in Dictyostelium: the carboxyl-terminal regulatory domain is not required for the developmental cycle." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 87: 8110-8114.
	
O'Halloran, T. J., et al. (1990). "Expression of Dictyostelium myosin tail segments in Escherichia coli: domains required for assembly and phosphorylation." J. Cell Biol. 110: 63-70.
	
North, M. J., et al. (1990). "Differential secretion of Dictyostelium discoideum proteinases." J. Gen. Microbiol. 136: 827-833.
	
North, M. J., et al. (1990). "Cysteine proteinase changes during macrocyst formation in Dictyostelium mucoroides." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 72: 153-158.
	
North, M. J., et al. (1990). "Dictyostelium discoideum spore germination - increases in proteinase activity are not directly coupled to the emergence of myxamoebae." J. Gen. Microbiol. 136: 835-840.
	
Noegel, A. A., et al. (1990). "A protein with homology to the C-terminal repeat sequence of octopus rhodopsin and synaptophysin is a member of a multigene family in Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 266: 118-122.
	
Newell, P. C., et al. (1990). Chemotaxis of Dictyostelium: the signal transduction pathways to actin and myosin. Biology of the chemotactic response (46th Symp. Soc. Gen. Microbiol.). J. P. Armitage and J. M. Lackie. Cambridge, UK, Cambridge Univ. Press. 46: 273-295.
	
Newell, P. C., et al. (1990). "Signal transduction for chemotaxis in Dictyostelium amoebae." Semin. Cell Biol. 1: 105-113.
	
Newell, P. C. (1990). Genetic map of Dictyostelium discoideum (cellular slime mould). Genetic maps. Locus maps of complex genomes. S. J. O'Brien. Cold Spring Harbor, NY, CSH Lab. Press: 3.3-3.8.
	
Nes, W. D., et al. (1990). "Sterol phylogenesis and algal evolution." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 87: 7565-7569.
	
Mutzel, R., et al. (1990). "Prophage lambda libraries for isolating cDNA by functional screening." Gene 96: 205-211.
	
Muller, U. and K. Hartung (1990). "Properties of three different ion channels in the plasma membrane of the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1026: 204-212.
	
Monk, P. B. and H. G. Othmer (1990). "Wave propagation in aggregation fields of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. R. Soc. Lond. B 240: 555-589.
	
Mizutani, A. and K. Yanagisawa (1990). "Cell-division inhibitor produced by a killer strain of cellular slime mold Polysphondylium pallidum." Devel. Growth Differ. 32: 397-402.
	
Mizutani, A., et al. (1990). "A killer factor produced by the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium pallidum." Arch. Microbiol. 153: 413-416.
	
Mirfakhrai, M., et al. (1990). "Evidence for mitochondrial DNA polymorphism and uniparental inheritance in the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium pallidum: Effect of intraspecies mating on mitochondrial DNA transmission." Genetics 124: 607-613.
	
Milne, J. L. (1990). Regulation of cellular calcium in Dictyostelium discoideum: identification and characterization of a high-affinity calcium pump and a chemoattractant-gated calcium-transport system (calcium pump). Toronto, ON (Canada), York University: 207.
	
Meyer, R. K. and U. Aebi (1990). "Bundling of actin filaments by alpha-actinin depends on its molecular length." J. Cell Biol. 110: 2013-2024.
	
Medley, Q. G., et al. (1990). "Dictyostelium myosin-II heavy-chain kinase-A is activated by autophosphorylation - studies with Dictyostelium myosin-II and synthetic peptides." Biochemistry 29: 8992-8997.
	
McNally, E. M. (1990). Mapping functional domains in myosin. New York, NY, Yeshiva University: 181.
	
Matsuda, H. and Y. Harada (1990). "Evolutionarily stable stalk to spore ratio in cellular slime molds and the law of equalization in net incomes." J. Theor. Biol. 147: 329-344.
	
Marshall, J. and J. F. Wheldrake (1990). "Purification and properties of pyruvate kinase from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Int. 21: 615-622.
	
Marschalek, R., et al. (1990). "Temperature sensitive synthesis of transfer RNAs in vivo in Saccharomyces cerevisiae." EMBO J. 9: 1253-1258.
	
Marschalek, R., et al. (1990). "Genomic organization of the transposable element Tdd-3 from Dictyostelium discoideum." Nucl. Acids Res. 18: 5751-5757.
	
Markus, M. (1990). "Modelling morphogenetic processes in excitable media using novel cellular automata." Biomed. Biochim. Acta 49: 681-696.
	
Maniak, M. and W. Nellen (1990). "Evidence for a feedback regulated back-up promoter which controls permanent expression of a Dictyostelium gene." Nucl. Acids Res. 18: 5375-5380.
	
Maniak, M. and W. Nellen (1990). "Two separable promoters control different aspects of expression of a Dictyostelium gene." Nucl. Acids Res. 18: 3211-3217.
	
Manabe, R., et al. (1990). "Monoclonal antibodies against the mercaptoethanol-sensitive structure of a cell-cell adhesion protein of Polysphondylium pallidum." J. Biochem. 108: 852-858.
	
Madigan, S. J., et al. (1990). "A Dictyostelium discoideum mutant exhibiting calcium-dependent, high-level detergent resistance." J. Bacteriol. 172: 2785-2787.
	
Madigan, S. J. (1990). Isolation and characterization of pimaricin-resistant mutants in Dictyostelium discoideum. Stony Brook, NY, State University of New York (SUNY) at Stony Brook: 178.
	
MacWilliams, H. K. (1990). "Introduction to the pattern formation section." Dev. Genet. 11: 425-426.
	
Ma, P. C. C. and C. H. Siu (1990). "A pharmacologically distinct cyclic AMP receptor is responsible for the regulation of gp80 expression in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cell. Biol. 10: 3297-3306.
	
Lydan, M. A., et al. (1990). Calcium, calmodulin, and the antagonistic action of an endogenous autoinhibitor of cell and pronuclear fusion in Dictyostelium discoideum. Calcium as an intracellular messenger in eucaryotic microbes. D. H. O'Day. Washington, D.C., Am. Soc. Microbiol.
	
Lundberg, G. A. and P. C. Newell (1990). "Membrane-associated phosphoinositidase-C activity in Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 270: 181-183.
	
Luna, E. J., et al. (1990). "Ponticulin, a developmentally-regulated plasma membrane glycoprotein, mediates actin binding and nucleation." Dev. Genet. 11: 354-361.
	
Luna, E. J. and J. S. Condeelis (1990). "Actin-associated proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Genet. 11: 328-332.
	
Luderus, M. E. E., et al. (1990). "Changes in cyclic AMP receptor properties during adaptation in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 95: 623-629.
	
Luck-Vielmetter, D., et al. (1990). "Replacement of threonine residues by serine and alanine in a phosphorylatable heavy chain fragment of Dictyostelium myosin-II." FEBS Lett. 269: 239-243.
	
Loomis, W. F. and D. W. Smith (1990). "Molecular phylogeny of Dictyostelium dscoideum by protein sequence comparison." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 87: 9093-9097.
	
Loomis, W. F. and D. L. Fuller (1990). "A pair of tandemly repeated genes code for Gp24, a putative adhesion protein of Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 87: 886-890.
	
Loomis, W. F. (1990). "Similarities in eukaryotic genomes." Compar. Biochem. Physiol. 95B: 21-27.
	
Loomis, W. F. (1990). Essential genes for development of Dictyostelium. Progress in molecular and subcellular biology. P. Jeanteur, Y. Kuchino, W. E. G. Muller and P. L. Paine. New York, Springer Verlag: 159-183.
	
Lloyd, M. M., et al. (1990). "Establishment of conditions for the transformation of nonaxenic Dictyostelium strains." Dev. Genet. 11: 391-395.
	
Liotta, L. A. and P. S. Steeg (1990). "Clues to the function of Nm23 and Awd proteins in development, signal transduction, and tumor metastasis provided by studies of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Natl. Cancer Inst. 82: 1170-1172.
	
Lionetti, K. A. (1990). Isolation and characterization of suppressors of nystatin resistance mutations in Dictyostelium discoideum. Stony Brook, NY, State University of New York (SUNY) at Stony Brook: 169.
	
Li, Y. X. and A. Goldbeter (1990). "Frequency encoding of pulsatile signals of cAMP based on receptor desensitization in Dictyostelium cells." J. Theor. Biol. 146: 355-367.
	
Leiting, B., et al. (1990). "The extrachromosomal replication of Dictyostelium plasmid Ddp2 requires a cis-acting element and a plasmid-encoded trans-acting factor." Mol. Cell. Biol. 10: 3727-3736.
	
Leiting, B. (1990). Extrachromosale Replikation des Dictyostelium discoideum Plasmids Ddp2 und seine Verwendung bei der Entwicklung von Transformationsvektoren. Munich, Lmu.
	
Leader, W. M. (1990). "The peach, the fly, and the patterns of life. (Meeting review)." New Biologist 2: 859-864.
	
Landolt, J. C. and S. L. Stephenson (1990). "Cellular slime molds in forest soils of West Virginia." Mycologia 82: 114-119.
	
Lacombe, M. L., et al. (1990). "Functional cloning of a nucleoside diphosphate kinase from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 265: 10012-10018.
	
Kwong, L., et al. (1990). "A Dictyostelium morphogen that is essential for stalk cell formation is generated by a subpopulation of prestalk cells." Development 110: 303-310.
	
Kwong, L. and G. Weeks (1990). "The effects of presumptive morphogens on prestalk and prespore gene expression in monolayers of Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 44: 88-94.
	
Kuhtreiber, W. M. and L. F. Jaffe (1990). "Detection of extracellular calcium gradients with a calcium-specific vibrating electrode." J. Cell Biol. 110: 1565-1573.
	
Kubohara, Y. and K. Okamoto (1990). "A stalk-specific wheat germ agglutinin binding protein, wst34, in Dictyostelium discoideum can be detected with antiserum raised against Dictyostelium mucoroides stalk." Biochem. Cell. Biol. 68: 699-704.
	
Kraft, B. G. (1990). Characterization of switching and an analysis of development-specific transcript regulation in Dictyostelium discoideum. Iowa City, IA, The University of Iowa: 346.
	
Kopachik, W. (1990). "Glorin-regulated protein synthesis in Polysphondylium violaceum." Exp. Cell Res. 186: 394-397.
	
Koonce, M. P. and J. R. McIntosh (1990). "Identification and immunolocalization of cytoplasmic dynein in Dictyostelium." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 15: 51-62.
	
Knecht, D. A. and R. H. Kessin (1990). "Recent advances in the molecular genetics of Dictyostelium." Dev. Genet. 11: 388-390.
	
Knecht, D. A., et al. (1990). "Quantification of transformation efficiency using a new method for clonal growth and selection of axenic Dictyostelium cells." Dev. Genet. 11: 403-409.
	
Klein, R., et al. (1990). "Dictyopterin, 6-(D-threo-1,2-dihydroxypropyl)-pterin, a new natural isomer of L-biopterin. Isolation from vegetative cells of Dictyostelium discoideum and identification." Eur. J. Biochem. 187: 665-669.
	
Klein, G., et al. (1990). "A natural-abundance 13C-NMR study of Dictyostelium discoideum metabolism - monitoring of the spore germination process." Eur. J. Biochem. 193: 135-142.
	
Kincaid, R. L., et al. (1990). Cloning and expression of the calmodulin-dependent phosphatase catalytic subunit from Neurospora crassa and Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Khosla, M., et al. (1990). "Regulation of DdrasG gene expression during Dictyostelium development." Mol. Cell. Biol. 10: 918-922.
	
Kesbeke, F., et al. (1990). "Chemotaxis to cyclic AMP and folic acid is mediated by different G-proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 96: 669-673.
	
Kedersha, N. L. and L. H. Rome (1990). "Vaults: large cytoplasmic RNP's that associate with cytoskeletal elements." Mol. Biol. Reports 14: 121-122.
	
Kedersha, N. L., et al. (1990). "Vaults. II. Ribonucleoprotein structures are highly conserved among higher and lower eukaryotes." J. Cell Biol. 110: 895-901.
	
Kawasaki, Y., et al. (1990). "Growth of the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum, is gravity dependent." Plant Physiol. 93: 1568-1572.
	
Katz, K. S. (1990). Homologous recombination in Dictyostelium discoideum. Amherst, MA, University of Massachusetts: 97.
	
Kamboj, R. K., et al. (1990). "Regulation of slug size by the cell adhesion molecule gp80 in Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Regulation 1: 715-729.
	
Kalpaxis, D., et al. (1990). "Positive selection for Dictyostelium mutants lacking uridine monophosphate synthase activity based on resistance to 5-fluoro-orotic acid." Dev. Genet. 11: 396-402.
	
Jung, G. and J. A. Hammer III (1990). "Generation and characterization of Dictyostelium cells deficient in a myosin I heavy chain isoform." J. Cell Biol. 110: 1955-1964.
	
Juliani, M. H., et al. (1990). "cAMP stimulation of Dictyostelium discoideum destabilizes the messenger RNA for 117 antigen." J. Biol. Chem. 265: 9077-9082.
	
Iwata, K., et al. (1990). "Influence of pre-treatment with DNA damaging agents on hyperthermic potentiation in cell killing of ultraviolet light-irradiated Dictyostelium discoideum." Int. J. Hyperther. 6: 619-628.
	
Ishikawa, T., et al. (1990). "Affinity purification of a 70K protein, a membrane protein relevant to sexual cell fusion in Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Differ. Devel. 31: 177-184.
	
Insall, R. and R. R. Kay (1990). "A specific DIF binding protein in Dictyostelium." EMBO J. 9: 3323-3328.
	
Inouye, K. (1990). "Control mechanism of stalk formation in the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Forma 5: 119-134.
	
Iijima, N. and Y. Maeda (1990). "The influence of pH on the choice between sexual and asexual development in Dictyostelium mucoroides." J. Gen. Microbiol. 136: 1739-1745.
	
Ihara, M., et al. (1990). "Partial purification and some properties of spore germination promoter(s) excreted by Klebsiella aerogenes." Agr. Biol. Chem. 54: 2619-2618.
	
Hong, J. S. and N. K. Chang (1990). "The occurrence and distribution of cellular slime molds in major deciduous forests of South Korea." Korean J. Bot. 33: 159-168.
	
Hobbs, L. J., et al. (1990). "Processing of neutral N-linked oligosaccharides during early Dictyostelium discoideum development." Dev. Genet. 11: 473-483.
	
Hjorth, A. L., et al. (1990). "A developmentally regulated trans-acting factor recognizes dissimilar G/C-rich elements controlling a class of cAMP-inducible Dictyostelium genes." Genes Devel. 4: 419-432.
	
Hemmingsen, B. B., et al. (1990). "Gas supersaturation tolerances in amoeboid cells before and after ingestion of bubble-promoting particles." Cell. Biophys. 17: 37-51.
	
Hassanain, H. H. (1990). Nutritional and chemotactic signals inactivate the expression of a growth-specific gene early in development in Dictyostelium discoideum. East Lansing, MI, Michigan State University: 161.
	
Harwood, A. J. and L. Drury (1990). "New vectors for expression of the E. coli lacZ gene in Dictyostelium." Nucl. Acids Res. 18: 4292.
	
Hartmann, H., et al. (1990). "Heterodimeric capping proteins constitute a highly conserved group of actin-binding proteins." Dev. Genet. 11: 369-376.
	
Halloy, J., et al. (1990). "Coupling chaotic and periodic cells results in a period-doubling route to chaos in a model for cAMP oscillations in Dictyostelium suspensions." Phys. Lett. A 151: 33-36.
	
Hagiwara, H. (1990). "Altitudinal distribution of dictyostelid cellular slime molds in the Langtang Valley of the central Himalayas." Reports Tottori Mycol. Inst. 28: 191-198.
	
Hagiwara, H. (1990). Enumeration of the dictyostelid cellular slime molds obtained from Mt. Phulchoki in the Kathmandu Valley, Nepal. Cryptograms of the Himalayas. M. Watanabe and S. B. Malla. Tsukuba, National Science Museum. 2 (Central and eastern Nepal): 23-32.
	
Haberstroh, L. and R. A. Firtel (1990). "A spatial gradient of expresssion of a cAMP-regulated prespore cell type-specific gene in Dictyostelium." Genes Devel. 4: 596-612.
	
Gurniak, C. B., et al. (1990). "Transcript and sequence analysis of a 5.1 kb contiguous fragment of Dictyostelium discoideum plasmid Ddp1 that contains the origin of replication and codes for several transcripts." Curr. Genet. 17: 321-325.
	
Gupta, J. and D. A. Cotter (1990). "Partial purification and characterization of trehalase from axenically grown myxamoebae of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1035: 243-248.
	
Gupta, J. and D. A. Cotter (1990). "The effect of altered glycosylation on the characteristics of lysosomal trehalase in Dictyostelium discoideum." Arch. Microbiol. 154: 226-230.
	
Gundersen, R. E. and P. N. Devreotes (1990). "In vivo receptor-mediated phosphorylation of a G-protein in Dictyostelium." Science 248: 591-593.
	
Grant, C. E. and A. Tsang (1990). "Cloning and characterization of cDNAs encoding a novel cyclic AMP-binding protein in Dictyostelium discoideum." Gene 96: 213-218.
	
Grant, C. E., et al. (1990). "The molecular basis for alternative splicing of the CABP1 transcripts in Dictyostelium discoideum." Nucl. Acids Res. 18: 5457-5463.
	
Grant, C. E. (1990). Characterization of a novel cAMP receptor gene from Dictyostelium discoideum. Montreal, QU (Canada), McGill University: 172.
	
Gooley, A. A., et al. (1990). "Identification and purification of the cell surface glycoprotein homologous to psA in different species of cellular slime mold on the basis of a shared carbohydrate epitope." Dev. Genet. 11: 484-491.
	
Gonzalez, C., et al. (1990). "Caffeine, an inhibitor of endocytosis in Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae." J. Cell. Physiol. 144: 408-415.
	
Goldbeter, A., et al. (1990). "Oscillatory dynamics in intercellular communication." Biomed. Biochim. Acta 49: 935-940.
	
Giorda, R., et al. (1990). "A shared internal threonine-glutamic acid-threonine-proline repeat defines a family of Dictyostelium discoideum spore germination specific proteins." Biochemistry 29: 7264-7269.
	
Gammon, B. M. (1990). Signal transduction in the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum (slime mold). Oxford, UK, University of Oxford: 265.
	
Furukawa, R., et al. (1990). "Cytoplasmic pH of Dictyostelium discoideum amebae during early development - identification of 2 cell subpopulations before the aggregation stage." J. Cell Biol. 110: 1947-1954.
	
Furukawa, R. and M. Fechheimer (1990). "Localization, expression, evolutionary conservation, and structure of the 30,000 dalton actin bundling protein of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Genet. 11: 362-368.
	
Fukui, Y., et al. (1990). "Structure and function of the cytoskeleton of a Dictyostelium myosin-defective mutant." J. Cell Biol. 110: 367-378.
	
Fukui, Y. (1990). "Actomyosin organization in mitotic Dictyostelium amoebae." Ann. NY Acad. Sci. 582: 156-165.
	
Freeze, H. H., et al. (1990). "Cell-free N-glycosylation in Dictyostelium discoideum - analysis of wild-type and mutants defective in lipid-linked oligosaccharide biosynthesis." J. Cell. Biochem. 43: 27-42.
	
Freeze, H. H., et al. (1990). "Biochemical and genetic analysis of an antigenic determinant found on N-linked oligosaccharides in Dictyostelium." Dev. Genet. 11: 463-472.
	
Freeze, H. H. (1990). "Glycoproteins in Dictyostelium." Dev. Genet. 11: 453.
	
Freeman, J. A. (1990). The isolation and characterization of the 1.688g/ml satellite DNA of Dictyostelium discoideum (DNA). Lowell, MA, University of Lowell: 184.
	
Frankel, S. A. (1990). Expression of actin in Escherichia coli, its preparation in a soluble form, and its functional characterization (sarkosyl). New York, NY, Yeshiva University: 197.
	
Frankel, S., et al. (1990). "Expression of actin in Escherichia coli. Aggregation, solubilization, and functional analysis." J. Biol. Chem. 265: 17980-17987.
	
Foerster, P., et al. (1990). "Curvature and spiral geometry in aggregation patterns of Dictyostelium discoideum." Development 109: 11-16.
	
Fisher, P. R. and Z. Wilczynska (1990). Isolation of signal transduction mutants of Dictyostelium by random insertion mutagenesis with an integrating shuttle vector and a novel method of selecting transformants. Developmental and Molecular Biology of Dictyostelium. EMBO/NSF Workshop, Torino, Italy, September 10 15, 1990.
	
Fisher, P. R. (1990). "Pseudopodium activation and inhibition signals in chemotaxis by Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae." Semin. Cell Biol. 1: 87-97.
	
Firtel, R. A. and A. L. Chapman (1990). "Role for cAMP-dependent protein kinase-A in early Dictyostelium development." Genes Devel. 4: 18-28.
	
Feit, I. N., et al. (1990). "Regulation of the anterior-like cell state by ammonia in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Genet. 11: 442-446.
	
Faure, M., et al. (1990). "The cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase gene of Dictyostelium discoideum contains three promoters specific for growth, aggregation, and late development." Mol. Cell. Biol. 10: 1921-1930.
	
Faix, J., et al. (1990). "Constitutive overexpression of the contact site-A glycoprotein enables growth-phase cells of Dictyostelium discoideum to aggregate." EMBO J. 9: 2709-2716.
	
Egelhoff, T. T., et al. (1990). "Complementation of myosin null mutants in Dictyostelium discoideum by direct functional selection." Dev. Biol. 137: 359-367.
	
Ebert, D. L., et al. (1990). "Lysosomal enzyme secretory mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 96: 491-500.
	
Drummond, I. A. S. and R. L. Chisholm (1990). "A pleiotropic defect in cAMP-regulated gene expression in the Dictyostelium agg- mutant synag 7." Dev. Biol. 140: 225-228.
	
Dingermann, T., et al. (1990). "Nonsense suppression in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Genet. 11: 410-417.
	
DeYoung, G. and H. G. Othmer (1990). "Resonance in oscillatory and excitable systems." Ann. NY Acad. Sci. 591: 128-153.
	
Demma, M., et al. (1990). "Isolation of an abundant 50,000-dalton actin filament bundling protein from Dictyostelium amoebae." J. Biol. Chem. 265: 2286-2291.
	
DeAngelo, M. J., et al. (1990). "Altruism, selfishness, and heterocytosis in cellular slime molds." Ethol. Ecol. Evol. 2: 439-443.
	
de Priester, W., et al. (1990). "Capping of con A receptors and actin distribution are influenced by disruption of microtubules in Dictyostelium discoideum." Eur. J. Cell 51: 23-32.
	
Darcy, P. K. and P. R. Fisher (1990). "Pharmacological evidence for a role for cyclic AMP signalling in Dictyostelium discoideum slug behaviour." J. Cell Sci. 96: 661-667.
	
da Silva, A. M. and C. Klein (1990). "Cell adhesion in transformed D. discoideum cells: expression of gp80 and its biochemical characterization." Dev. Biol. 140: 139-148.
	
da Silva, A. M. and C. Klein (1990). "A rapid posttranslational myristylation of a 68-kD protein in D. discoideum." J. Cell Biol. 111: 401-407.
	
Cox, E. C., et al. (1990). "Electrophoretic karyotype for Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 87: 8247-8251.
	
Coukell, M. B. and A. M. Cameron (1990). "Calcium depletion of Dictyostelium cells selectively inhibits cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase synthesis at a post-transcriptional step." J. Cell Sci. 97: 649-657.
	
Cotter, D. A., et al. (1990). "Germination of Dictyostelium discoideum spores - inhibition of the autoactivation pathway by vanadate." J. Gen. Microbiol. 136: 841-845.
	
Corney, A. J., et al. (1990). "Developmental regulation of cell-type-enriched mRNAs in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Microbiol. 4: 613-623.
	
Condeelis, J., et al. (1990). "Mechanisms of amoeboid chemotaxis - an evaluation of the cortical expansion model." Dev. Genet. 11: 333-340.
	
Condeelis, J. (1990). "Molecular analysis of amoeboid chemotaxis (letter to the editor)." Cancer Investig. 8: 659-660.
	
Clarke, M. (1990). Calmodulin structure, localization, and expression in Dictyostelium discoideum. Calcium as an intracellular messenger in eucaryotic microbes. D. H. O'Day. Washington, D.C., Am. Soc. Microbiol.
	
Chang, A. C. M., et al. (1990). "Identification of the origin of replication of the eukaryote Dictyostelium discoideum nuclear plasmid Ddp2." Plasmid 24: 208-217.
	
Chandrasekhar, A., et al. (1990). "Developmental mechanisms regulating the rapid decrease in a cohesion glycoprotein mRNA in Dictyostelium function primarily at the level of mRNA degradation." Dev. Biol. 141: 262-269.
	
Cavender, J. C. (1990). Phylum Dictyostelida (Ch. 7). Jones & Bartlett Series in Life Sciences: Handbook of Protoctista - The structure, cultivation, habitats and life histories of the eukaryotic microorganisms and their descendants exclusive of animals, plants and fungi - a guide to the algae, ciliates, foraminifera, sporozoa, water molds, slime molds, and the other protoctists. L. Margulis, J. O. Corliss, M. Melkonian and D. J. Chapman. Boston, Jones and Bartlett: 88-101.
	
Cardelli, J. A., et al. (1990). "Biochemical and genetic analysis of the biosynthesis, sorting, and secretion of Dictyostelium lysosomal enzymes." Dev. Genet. 11: 454-462.
	
Cardelli, J. A., et al. (1990). "Sulfated N-linked oligosaccharides affect secretion but are not essential for the transport, proteolytic processing, and sorting of lysosomal enzymes in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 265: 8847-8853.
	
Capaldi, R. A., et al. (1990). "The two oxygen-regulated subunits of cytochrome-C oxidase in Dictyostelium discoideum derive from a common ancestor." FEBS Lett. 261: 158-160.
	
Bush, J. M., et al. (1990). "Alterations to N-linked oligosaccharides which affect intracellular transport rates and regulated secretion but not sorting of lysosomal acid phosphatase in Dictyostelium discoideum." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 283: 158-166.
	
Browning, D. D. (1990). Biochemical changes associated with cell fusion and differentiation during sexual development of Dictyostelium discoideum. Toronto, ON (Canada), University of Toronto: 126.
	
Brink, M., et al. (1990). "A Dictyostelium mutant lacking an F-actin cross-linking protein, the 120-kD gelation factor." J. Cell Biol. 111: 1477-1489.
	
Briere, C. and B. C. Goodwin (1990). "Effects of calcium input/output on the stability of a system for calcium-regulated visco-elastic strain fields." J. Math. Biol. 28: 585-593.
	
Brickey, D. A., et al. (1990). "Regulation of the two forms of glycogen phosphorylase by cAMP and its analogs in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cell. Biochem. 97: 17-33.
	
Bresnick, A. R., et al. (1990). "Identification of a short sequence essential for actin binding by Dictyostelium ABP-120." J. Biol. Chem. 265: 9236-9240.
	
Bonner, J. T., et al. (1990). "Timing of the formation of the prestalk and prespore zones in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Genet. 11: 439-441.
	
Bominaar, A. A. and P. J. M. van Haastert (1990). Calcium and the inositol cycle in chemotaxis. Calcium as an intracellular messenger in eucaryotic microbes. D. H. O'Day. Washington, D.C., Am. Soc. Microbiol.
	
Bominaar, A. A., et al. (1990). G-proteins and the inositol cycle in Dictyostelium discoideum. G-proteins and signal transduction: Biochemical Society Symposium no. 56. G. Milligan, M. J. O. Wakelam and J. Kay. London, Biochemical Society: 71-80.
	
Bomblies, L., et al. (1990). "Membrane-enclosed crystals in Dictyostelium discoideum cells, consisting of developmentally regulated proteins with sequence similarities to known esterases." J. Cell Biol. 110: 669-679.
	
Blanton, R. L. and D. H. Northcote (1990). "A 1,4-b-d-glucan-synthase system from Dictyostelium discoideum." Planta 180: 324-332.
	
Blanton, R. L. (1990). Phylum Acrasea (Ch. 6). Jones & Bartlett Series in Life Sciences: Handbook of Protoctista - The structure, cultivation, habitats and life histories of the eukaryotic microorganisms and their descendants exclusive of animals, plants and fungi - a guide to the algae, ciliates, foraminifera, sporozoa, water molds, slime molds, and the other protoctists. L. Margulis, J. O. Corliss, M. Melkonian and D. J. Chapman. Boston, Jones and Bartlett: 75-87.
	
Black, K. M. (1990). The investigation of the terminal step in the ubiquitin-mediated, ATP-dependent proteolytic pathway in Dictyostelium discoideum. Lowell, MA, University of Lowell: 109.
	
Berks, M. and R. R. Kay (1990). "Combinatorial control of cell differentiation by cAMP and DIF-1 during development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Development 110: 977-984.
	
Bain, G. (1990). Characterization of two polypeptides encoded by a single gene in Dictyostelium discoideum (gene splicing). Montreal, QU (Canada), McGill University: 148.
	
Aparicio, J. G., et al. (1990). "Spore coat is altered in modB glycosylation mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell. Biochem. 42: 255-266.
	
Anschutz, A. and C. Klein (1990). "Characterization of a GDP-sensitive phosphorylation in plasma membranes of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Prot. Chem. 9: 417-425.
	
Alexander, S., et al. (1990). "Regulatory gene interactions controlling discoidin lectin expression in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Genet. 11: 418-424.
	
Albe, K. R., et al. (1990). "Cellular concentrations of enzymes and their substrates." J. Theor. Biol. 143: 163-196.
	
Zhou, S. (1989). "Rapid destroying of mRNAs in disaggregated Dictyostelium cells and effect of antibiotics." Acta Genetica Sinica 16: 455-462.
	
Yoshida, M. and Y. Iizuka (1989). "Isolation of an aggregation-less mutant of Dictyostelium discoideum with the expression of contact site A-glycoprotein." Cell struct. 14: 625-636.
	
Wurster, B. and W. Kurzenberger (1989). "Periodic cell aggregation in suspensions of Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 41: 1-4.
	
Wilson, D. S. and E. Sober (1989). "Reviving the superorganism." J. Theor. Biol. 136: 337-356.
	
Williams, J. G., et al. (1989). "Formation and anatomy of the prestalk zone of Dictyostelium." Development 107suppl.: 91-98.
	
Williams, J. G., et al. (1989). "Origins of the prestalk-prespore pattern in Dictyostelium development." Cell 59: 1157-1163.
	
Williams, J. G. (1989). "Extracellular signals and intracellular transduction pathways regulating Dictyostelium development." Curr. Opin. Cell Biol. 1: 1132-1138.
	
Widdowson, D. C. C., et al. (1989). "Nucleotide sequence of a late developmentally regulated prespore-enriched Dictyostelium discoideum gene." Nucl. Acids Res. 17: 8374.
	
Wessels, D., et al. (1989). "cAMP-mediated inhibition of intracellular particle movement and actin reorganization in Dictyostelium." J. Cell Biol. 109: 2841-2851.
	
Welker, D. L., et al. (1989). "Linkage analysis of the myosin heavy chain gene in Dictyostelium discoideum using a mutation generated by homologous recombination." Mol. Gen. Genet. 216: 498-510.
	
Warner, C. A. (1989). Characterization of the structure and expression of LM1, and cyclic-AMP inducible gene from Dictyostelium discoideum (cyclic-AMP). Evanston, IL, Northwestern University: 148.
	
Wang, M. and P. Schaap (1989). "Ammonia depletion and DIF trigger stalk cell differentiation in intact Dictyostelium discoideum slugs." Development 105: 569-574.
	
Wang, M. (1989). Four signals to shape a slime mold. Leiden, RUL: 100.
	
Wales, M. E., et al. (1989). "Characterization of pyrimidine metabolism in the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum." Can. J. Microbiol. 35: 432-438.
	
Vogel, G., et al. (1989). Recognition mechanisms during phagocytosis and cell adhesion in Dictyostelium discoideum. Eur. J. Cell Biol.
	
Vicker, M. G. (1989). Spatial-gradient and temporal signals in cell accumulation and chemotaxis. Eur. J. Cell Biol.
	
van Ments-Cohen, M. and P. J. M. van Haastert (1989). "The cyclic nucleotide specificity of eight cAMP-binding proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum is correlated into three groups." J. Biol. Chem. 254: 8717-8722.
	
van Lookeren Campagne, M. M., et al. (1989). "Cyclic-AMP-induced elevation of intracellular pH precedes, but does not mediate, the induction of prespore differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Development 105: 401-406.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M., et al. (1989). "Chemoattractant and guanosine 5'-[gamma-thio]triphosphate induce the accumulation of inositol 1,4,5,-trisphophate in Dictyostelium cells that are labelled with [3H] inositol by electroporation." Biochem. J. 258: 577-586.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M. (1989). Transmembrane signal transduction in Dictyostelium mutants. Hormones and cell regulation. J. Nunez and J. E. Dumont. Paris, INSERM/J. Libbey Eurotext Ltd.: 7-13.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M. (1989). "Determination of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate levels in Dictyostelium by isotope dilution assay." Anal. Biochem. 177: 115-119.
	
van Duijn, B. and S. A. Vogelzang (1989). "The membrane potential of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum is mainly generated by an electrogenic proton pump." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 983: 186-192.
	
Van Duijn, B., et al. (1989). "Effects of potassium channel blockers on differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum." Pflugers Arch. 414 (Suppl. 1): S148-S149.
	
Valencia, A., et al. (1989). "Spectroscopical studies on the structural organization of the lectin discoidin I: analysis of sugar-and calcium-binding activities." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 990: 93-97.
	
Urushihara, H. (1989). "Cell recognition in haploid cells of Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Technol. 18: 58-67.
	
Umeda, T. A. (1989). "A mathematical model for cell sorting, migration and shape in the slug stage of Dictyostelium discoideum." Bull. Math. Biol. 51: 485-500.
	
Tyson, J. J. and J. D. Murray (1989). "Cyclic AMP waves during aggregation of Dictyostelium amoebae." Development 106: 421-426.
	
Tyson, J. J., et al. (1989). "Spiral waves of cyclic AMP in a model of slime mold aggregation." Physica D 34: 193-207.
	
Tyson, J. J. (1989). Cyclic-AMP waves in Dictyostelium. Specific models and general theories. Cell to cell signalling: from experiments to theoretical models. A. Goldbeter. London, Ac. Press: 521-537.
	
Tschursin, E., et al. (1989). "Differential regulation of glycoprotein sulfation and fucosylation during growth of Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 40: 1-9.
	
Toda, K., et al. (1989). "Structure and expression of elongation factor 2 gene during development of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 264: 15489-15493.
	
Titus, M. A., et al. (1989). "Multiple actin based motor genes in Dictyostelium." Cell Regulation 1: 55-63.
	
Thiery, R. (1989). Etudes biophysiques sur la croissance, l'agregation et les signaux intercellulaires chez Dictyostelium discoideum., Univ. Paris 6.
	
Takeuchi, I. and M. Tasaka (1989). "Formation of differentiation pattern in Dictyostelium discoideum." Genome 31: 620-624.
	
Tafuri, S. R., et al. (1989). "Dictyostelium discoideum myosin: Isolation and characterization of cDNAs encoding the regulatory light chain." Mol. Cell. Biol. 9: 3073-3080.
	
Tafuri, S. R. (1989). The effects of phosphorylation on Dictyostelium myosin function and the isolation and characterization of the myosin regulatory light chain complementary-DNA. Evanston, IL, Northwestern University: 226.
	
Szymkowski, D. E., et al. (1989). "A Dictyostelium discoideum cDNA coding for a protein with homology to the rat ribosomal protein L7." Nucl. Acids Res. 17: 5393.
	
Suzuki, K. and K. Yanagisawa (1989). "Environmental factors inducing sexual development in Dictyostelium discoideum." Bot. Mag. Tokyo 102: 53-61.
	
Suzuki, K. and K. Yanagisawa (1989). "Identification of the cell surface molecule involved in sexual cell fusion of Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 40: 159-165.
	
Stadler, J., et al. (1989). "The contact site A glycoprotein of Dictyostelium discoideum carries a phospholipid anchor of a novel type." EMBO J. 8: 371-377.
	
Srinivas, U. K. and E. J. Henderson (1989). "Biochemical differentiation in a mutant of Dictyostelium discoideum defective in cyclic AMP chemotaxis and in intercellular cohesion." Development 107: 153-164.
	
Spudich, J. A. (1989). "In pursuit of myosin function." Cell Regulation 1: 1-11.
	
Springer, W. R. (1989). "Developmentally regulated cell-cell adhesion in Dictyostelium purpureum is mediated by a glycoprotein synthesized in nonadhesive cells." Dev. Biol. 133: 447-455.
	
Smith, E., et al. (1989). "Glycoproteins that exhibit extensive size polymorphisms in Dictyostelium discoideum." Genetics 122: 59-64.
	
Small, J. V. (1989). "Microfilament-based motility in non-muscle cells." Curr. Opin. Cell Biol. 1: 75-79.
	
Slade, M. B. and K. L. Williams (1989). Recombinant proteins - the cost of production in D. discoideum. Proc. 8th Annu. Aust. Biotech. Conf. Sydney.
	
Singleton, C. K., et al. (1989). "Primary structure and regulation of vegetative specific genes of Dictyostelium discoideum." Nucl. Acids Res. 17: 9679-9692.
	
Singleton, C. K. (1989). "Nucleotide sequence of VI, a ribosomal protein gene from Dictyostelium discoideum." Nucl. Acids Res. 17: 7989.
	
Simon, M. N., et al. (1989). "Overproduction of the regulatory subunit of the cAMP-dependent protein kinase blocks the differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum." EMBO J. 8: 2039-2044.
	
Simon, M. N. (1989). La proteine kinase dependante de l'AMPc de Dictyostelium discoideum: etude de la structure de la proteine et de sa fonction dans le processus de differenciation. Paris, l'Universite Paris 7: 133.
	
Silva, A. M., et al. (1989). "Phosphorylation of ribosomal protein S6 is dependent on cyclic AMP in Dictyostelium discoideum." Sec. Mess. Phosphoprot. 12: 271-280.
	
Siegert, F. and C. Weijer (1989). "Digital image processing of optical density wave propagation in Dictyostelium discoideum and analysis of the effects of caffeine and ammonia." J. Cell Sci. 93: 325-335.
	
Shur, B. D. (1989). "Glycoconjugates as mediators of cellular interactions during development." Curr. Opin. Cell Biol. 1: 905-912.
	
Shiozawa, J. A., et al. (1989). "Binding of plasma membrane glycoproteins to the cytoskeleton during patching and capping is consistent with an entropy-enhancement model." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 980: 361-366.
	
Shaw, D. R., et al. (1989). "Nucleotide sequences of Dictyostelium discoideum developmentally regulated cDNAs rich in (AAC) imply proteins that contain clusters of asparagine, glutamine, or threonine." Mol. Gen. Genet. 218: 453-459.
	
Sharp, P. M. and K. M. Devine (1989). "Codon usage and gene expression level in Dictyostelium discoideum: highly expressed genes do 'prefer' optimal codons." Nucl. Acids Res. 17: 5029-5039.
	
Sharkey, D. J. and R. Kornfeld (1989). "Identification of an N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase in Dictyostelium discoideum that transfers an "intersecting" N-acetylglucosamine residue to high mannose oligosaccharides." J. Biol. Chem. 264: 10411-10419.
	
Sharkey, D. J. (1989). The processing of asparagine-linked oligosaccharides in Dictyostelium discoideum at early and late stages of development. St. Louis, MO, Washington University: 184.
	
Segall, J. E. and G. Gerisch (1989). "Genetic approaches to cytoskeleton function and the control of cell motility." Curr. Opin. Cell Biol. 1: 44-50.
	
Schwandner, W. and C. J. Weijer (1989). Identification of G proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum. Cell Differ. Devel.
	
Schulze, H., et al. (1989). "alpha-Actinin synthesis can be modulated by antisense probes and is autoregulated in non-muscle cells." EMBO J. 8: 3587-3593.
	
Schoen, C. D., et al. (1989). "Intracellular localization of secretable cAMP in relaying Dictyostelium discoideum cells." Exp. Cell Res. 181: 51-62.
	
Schlenz, P. and C. J. Weijer (1989). The role of calcium as a second messenger for prespore specific gene expression in Dictyostelium discoideum. Cell Differ. Devel.
	
Schiavo, G. and R. Bisson (1989). "Oxygen influences the subunit structure of cytochrome c oxidase in the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 264: 7129-7134.
	
Scheel, J., et al. (1989). "Hisactophilin, a histidine-rich actin-binding protein from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 264: 2832-2839.
	
Satre, M., et al. (1989). "Methyl phosphonate as a 31P-NMR probe for intracellular pH measurements in Dictyostelium amoebae." Biochimie 71: 941-948.
	
Sandholzer, U., et al. (1989). "cDNA and derived amino acid sequence of the hypusine containing protein from Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 246: 94-100.
	
Rubino, S., et al. (1989). "Molecular analysis of a developmentally regulated gene required for Dictyostelium aggregation." Dev. Biol. 131: 27-36.
	
Roos, U. P. and H. Cattelan-Kohler (1989). "Formation and dynamics of the mitotic spindle in the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium violaceum." Eur. J. Cell Biol. 50: 56-65.
	
Robbins, S. M., et al. (1989). "Growing and developing Dictyostelium cells express different ras genes." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 86: 938-942.
	
Riley, B. B., et al. (1989). "Conditions that elevate intracellular cAMP levels promote spore formation in Dictyostelium." Differentiation 41: 5-13.
	
Reymond, C. D., et al. (1989). Analysis of the ras gene function in Dictyostelium discoideum. The guanine-nucleotide binding proteins: Common structural and functional properties. L. Bosch, B. Kraal and A. Parmeggiani. New York, Plenum Press: 265-272.
	
Rewais, S. M. (1989). Batch and continuous culture studies of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum (batch culture). Sydney (Australia), University of New South Wales.
	
Ravid, S. and J. A. Spudich (1989). "Myosin heavy chain kinase from developed Dictyostelium cells. Purification and characterization." J. Biol. Chem. 264: 15144-15150.
	
Ratner, D. I., et al. (1989). "Prespore gene expression in Dictyostelium requires concomitant protein synthesis." Biochim. Biophys. Acta regulatory genes / trans-acting factors: 71-78.
	
Ramagopal, S. (1989). "Acidic ribosomal proteins of Dictyostelium discoideum that show electrophoretic similarity to E. coli proteins L7 and L12." Biochem. Cell Biol. 67: 712-718.
	
Ramagopal, S. (1989). "Unequal accumulation of 26S and 17S RNAs in ribosomes during spore germination in Dictyostelium discoideum." Can. J. Microbiol. 35: 850-853.
	
Ramagopal, S. (1989). "Synthesis of a ribosome-bound translatable poly(A)-mRNA during spore germination in Dictyostelium discoideum." Can. J. Microbiol. 35: 573-577.
	
Quinones, M. J. (1989). The distribution of dictyostelid cellular slime molds in northern Californian forest soils. Athens, OH, Ohio University.
	
Pupillo, M., et al. (1989). "Multiple alpha subunits of guanine nucleotide-binding proteins in Dictyostelium." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 86: 4892-4896.
	
Podgorski, G. J., et al. (1989). "The cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase gene of Dictyostelium discoideum utilizes alternate promotors and splicing for the synthesis of multiple mRNAs." Mol. Cell. Biol. 9: 3938-3950.
	
Piaggio, M. J. (1989). "Distribution of dictyostelid cellular slime molds in two grazing land soils in Uruguay." Cryptogamie, Mycologie 10: 173-178.
	
Peters, D. J. M., et al. (1989). "Lithium ions induce prestalk-associated gene expression and inhibit prespore gene expression in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 93: 205-210.
	
Pelech, S., et al. (1989). "Characterization of developmentally regulated cAMP/Ca2+-independent protein kinases from Dictyostelium discoideum." Devel. Growth Differ. 31: 351-362.
	
Pavlovic, J., et al. (1989). "Identification of a signal transduction response sequence element necessary for induction of a Dictyostelium discoideum gene by extracellular cyclic AMP." Mol. Cell. Biol. 9: 4660-4669.
	
Pavlovic, J., et al. (1989). "The effects of transcription on the nucleosome structure of four Dictyostelium genes." Nucl. Acids Res. 17: 2315-2332.
	
Patton, W. F., et al. (1989). "Identification of Dictyostelium discoideum plasma membrane proteins by cell surface labeling and quantitative two-dimensional gel electrophoresis." Anal. Biochem. 179: 37-49.
	
Patton, W. F., et al. (1989). "Differential partitioning of plasma membrane proteins into the Triton-X-100 insoluble cytoskeleton of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 92: 85-91.
	
Pasternak, C., et al. (1989). "Capping of surface receptors and concomitant cortical tension are generated by conventional myosin." Nature 341: 549-551.
	
Pasternak, C., et al. (1989). "Intermolecular versus intramolecular interactions of Dictyostelium myosin: Possible regulation by heavy chain phosphorylation." J. Cell Biol. 109: 203-210.
	
Parissenti, A. M. and M. B. Coukell (1989). "Identification of a nucleic acid-regulated cyclic GMP-binding activity in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 92: 291-301.
	
Palacios, J. M., et al. (1989). "Adrenergic receptor homologies in vertebrate and invertebrate species examined by DNA hybridization." Life Sci. 44: 2057-2065.
	
Padh, H., et al. (1989). "Characterization of a vacuolar proton ATPase in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 982: 271-278.
	
Padh, H., et al. (1989). "Prelysosomal acidic vacuoles in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Biol. 108: 865-874.
	
Orii, H., et al. (1989). "Sequence organization and gene expression of pGDl, a plasmid found in a wild isolate of Dictyostelium." Nucl. Acids Res. 17: 1395-1409.
	
Okaichi, K., et al. (1989). "DNA damage and its repair in Dictyostelium discoideum irradiated by health lamp light (UV-B)." Photochem. Photobiol. 50: 69-73.
	
Ohnishi, T., et al. (1989). "Depression of hyperthermic potentiation in cell killing of ultraviolet light irradiated Dictyostelium discoideum by pre-heat treatment." Int. J. Radiat. Biol. 56: 193-200.
	
Ohmachi, T., et al. (1989). "Molecular organization of developmentally regulated Dictyostelium discoideum ubiquitin cDNAs." Biochemistry 28: 5226-5230.
	
O'Day, D. H. and M. A. Lydan (1989). "The regulation of membrane fusion during sexual development in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Cell Biol. 67: 321-326.
	
Noegel, A. A., et al. (1989). "Biological roles of actin-binding proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum examined using genetic techniques." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 14: 69-74.
	
Noegel, A. A., et al. (1989). "The Dictyostelium gelation factor shares a putative actin binding site with alpha-actinins and dystrophin and also has a rod domain containing six 100-residue motifs that appear to have a cross-beta conformation." J. Cell Biol. 109: 607-618.
	
Nanjundiah, V. and B. Wurster (1989). Is there a cyclic-AMP-independent oscillator in Dictyostelium discoideum? Cell to cell signalling: from experiments to theoretical models. A. Goldbeter. London, Ac. Press: 489-502.
	
Nagorcka, B. N. (1989). "Wavelike isomorphic prepatterns in development." J. Theor. Biol. 137: 127-162.
	
Nachmias, V. T., et al. (1989). "Chemoattractant-elicited translocation of myosin in motile Dictyostelium." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 13: 158-169.
	
Munroe, D. and A. Jacobson (1989). Involvement of 3'-poly(A) tracts in protein synthesis: A role in mRNP assembly. Molecular Biology of RNA: Proc. Director's Sponsors-UCLA Symp., Keystone, CO. R. Cech. New York, A.R. Liss: 257-269.
	
Muller-Taubenberger, M., et al. (1989). "An extended ubiquitin of Dictyostelium is located in the small ribosomal subunit." J. Biol. Chem. 264: 5319-5322.
	
Muller-Taubenberger, A., et al. (1989). "A developmentally regulated gene product from Dictyostelium discoideum shows high homology to human alpha-L-fucosidase." FEBS Lett. 246: 185-192.
	
Monk, P. B. and H. G. Othmer (1989). "Cyclic AMP oscillations in suspensions of Dictyostelium discoideum." Phil. Trans. R. Soc. Lond. B 323: 185-224.
	
Monk, P. B. and H. G. Othmer (1989). "Relay, oscillations and wave propagation in a model of Dictyostelium discoideum." Lectures on Mathematics in the Life Sciences 21: 87-122.
	
Milne, J. L. and M. B. Coukell (1989). "Identification of a high-affinity Ca2+ pump associated with endocytic vesicles in Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Cell Res. 185: 21-32.
	
Meinhardt, H. (1989). "Models for positional signalling with application to the dorsoventral patterning of insects and segregation into different cell types." Development 107 Suppl.: 169-180.
	
McNally, J. G. and E. C. Cox (1989). "Spots and stripes: the patterning spectrum in the cellular slime mould Polysphondylium pallidum." Development 105: 323-333.
	
McCaffrey, G. and R. D. Vale (1989). "Identification of a kinesin-like microtubule based motor protein in Dictyostelium discoideum." EMBO J. 8: 3229-3234.
	
May, T., et al. (1989). "Identification of a cis-acting element controlling induction of early gene expression in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cell. Biol. 9: 4653-4659.
	
Marschalek, R., et al. (1989). "Transfer RNA genes: landmarks for integration of mobile genetic elements in Dictyostelium discoideum." Science 244: 1493-1496.
	
Manstein, D. J., et al. (1989). "Gene replacement in Dictyostelium: generation of myosin null mutants." EMBO J. 8: 923-932.
	
Manstein, D. J., et al. (1989). "Expression and characterization of a functional myosin head fragment in Dictyostelium discoideum." Science 246: 656-658.
	
Mann, S. K. and R. A. Firtel (1989). "Two-phase regulatory pathway controls cAMP receptor-mediated expression of early genes in Dictyostelium." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 86: 1924-1928.
	
Maniak, M., et al. (1989). "A colony-blot technique for the detection of specific transcripts in eukaryotes." Anal. Biochem. 176: 78-81.
	
Maniak, M. and W. Nellen (1989). "pISAR, a tool for cloning genomic sequences adjacent to the site of vector integration." Nucl. Acids Res. 17: 4894.
	
Mangiarotti, G., et al. (1989). "Analysis of specific mRNA destabilization during Dictyostelium development." Development 106: 473-481.
	
Mangiarotti, G. (1989). "Control of mRNA stability during development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Soc. Symp. 55: 77-89.
	
Mahajan, R. K., et al. (1989). "Actin filaments mediated Dictyostelium myosin assembly in vitro." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 86: 6161-6165.
	
Maeda, Y., et al. (1989). "Transition of starving Dictyostelium cells to differentiation phase at a particular position of the cell cycle." Differentiation 41: 169-175.
	
Madigan, S. J. and E. R. Katz (1989). "Identification and characterization of catA, a mutation causing catalase deficiency in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Bacteriol. 171: 1492-1495.
	
Lydan, M. A. and D. H. O'Day (1989). "The autoinhibitor of cell fusion in Dictyostelium inhibits calmodulin." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 164: 1176-1181.
	
Luna, E. (1989). A developmental model. Science. 244: 1201-1202.
	
Luderus, M. E. E., et al. (1989). "A protein kinase C-related enzyme activity in Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 253: 71-75.
	
Li, Y. X. and A. Goldbeter (1989). "Frequency specificity in intercellular communication. Influence of patterns of periodic signaling on target cell responsiveness." Biophys. J. 55: 125-145.
	
Lenhard, J. M., et al. (1989). "Developing Dictyostelium cells contain the lysosomal enzyme alpha-mannosidase in a secretory granule." J. Cell Biol. 109: 2761-2769.
	
Lenhard, J. M., et al. (1989). "Developing Dictyostelium discoideum cells contain two distinct acid hydrolase-containing vesicles." Exp. Cell Res. 182: 242-255.
	
Lenhard, J. M. (1989). The intracellular location of lysosomal enzymes in developing Dictyostelium discoideum cells. Buffalo, NY, State University of New York (SUNY) at Buffalo: 162.
	
Leiting, B. and A. Noegel (1989). The endogenous Dictyostelium-plasmid Ddp2 as model for extrachromosomal replication in Dictyostelium discoideum. Eur. J. Cell Biol.
	
Lamers, G., et al. (1989). Capping and directional cell movement in Dictyostelium discoideum: mediated by microtubules? Ultramicroscopy.
	
Lacoste, C. H., et al. (1989). "Characteristics of the sulfation of N-linked oligosaccharides in vesicles from Dictyostelium discoideum: in vitro sulfation of lysosomal enzymes." Arch. Biochem. Biophys 273: 505-515.
	
Kwong, L. and G. Weeks (1989). "Studies on the accumulation of the differentiation-inducing factor (DIF) in high-cell-density monolayers of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 132: 554-558.
	
Kumagai, A., et al. (1989). "Regulation and function of Galpha protein subunits in Dictyostelium." Cell 57: 265-275.
	
Krefft, M. and C. J. Weijer (1989). "Expression of a cell surface antigen in Dictyostelium discoideum in relation to the cell cycle." J. Cell Sci. 93: 199-204.
	
Kraft, B., et al. (1989). "Dictyostelium erasure mutant HI4 abnormally retains development-specific mRNAs during dedifferentiation." Dev. Biol. 136: 363-371.
	
Kosugi, T. and K. Inouye (1989). "Negative chemotaxis to ammonia and other weak bases by migrating slugs of the cellular slime moulds." J. Gen. Microbiol. 135: 1589-1598.
	
Knecht, D. (1989). "Application of antisense RNA to the study of the cytoskeleton: background, principles, and a summary of results obtained with myosin heavy chain." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 14: 92-102.
	
Klein, G., et al. (1989). "Endocytosis and inositol hexakiphosphate levels in RAS transformants of Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae." Experientia 45: 365-367.
	
Klein, G., et al. (1989). "Vanadate, an inhibitor of growth development and endocytosis in Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae." J. Cell Sci. 94: 127-134.
	
Kitanishi-Yumura, T. and Y. Fukui (1989). "Actomyosin organization during cytokinesis: Reversible translocation and differential redistribution in Dictyostelium." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 12: 78-89.
	
Kimmel, A. R. (1989). Molecular biology of Dictyostelium development: Proceedings of the Symposium on Molecular Biology of Dictyostelium Development, held in Airlie, Virginia, November 7-12, 1987. New York, Liss.
	
Ketcham, R. B. and R. M. Eisenberg (1989). "Clonal diversity in populations of Polysphondylium pallidum, a cellular slime mold." Ecology 70: 1425-1433.
	
Kay, R. R. and J. C. Smith (1989). "The molecular basis of positional signalling: introduction." Development 107 (Suppl.): 1-2.
	
Kay, R. R., et al. (1989). "Morphogen hunting in Dictyostelium." Development 107 (Suppl.): 81-90.
	
Kay, R. R. (1989). "Evidence that elevated intracellular cyclic AMP triggers spore maturation in Dictyostelium." Development 105: 753-759.
	
Kamboj, R. K., et al. (1989). "Identification of an octapeptide involved in homophilic interaction of the cell adhesion molecule gp80 of Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell 59: 615-625.
	
Kaiser, D. A., et al. (1989). "Characterization of renatured profilin purified by urea elution from poly-L-proline agarose columns." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 14: 251-262.
	
Jung, G., et al. (1989). "Dictyostelium discoideum contains a gene encoding a myosin I heavy chain." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 86: 6186-6190.
	
Johnson, R. L., et al. (1989). "G-protein-linked signal transduction systems control development in Dictyostelium." Development 107 Suppl.: 75-80.
	
Jimenez, B., et al. (1989). "A phospholipid-stimulated protein kinase from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. J. 260: 557-561.
	
Jermyn, K. A., et al. (1989). "A new anatomy of the prestalk zone in Dictyostelium." Nature 340: 144-146.
	
Jensen, S. L., et al. (1989). "Gene amplification associated with the dominant Cob-354 cobalt resistance trait in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Gen. Genet. 220: 25-32.
	
Janssens, P. M. W., et al. (1989). "Regulatory properties of magnesium-dependent guanylate cyclase in Dictyostelium discoideum membranes." J. Biol. Chem. 264: 4329-4335.
	
Iwata, K., et al. (1989). "Hyperthermic effects on cell killing in Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae treated with DNA-damaging agents." Int. J. Hyperthermia 5: 535-542.
	
Inouye, K. (1989). "Control of cell type proportions by a secreted factor in Dictyostelium discoideum." Development 107: 605-610.
	
Inouye, K. (1989). "Regulation of cytoplasmic pH in the differentiating cell types of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1012: 64-68.
	
Ingalls, H. M., et al. (1989). "Developmental changes in protein composition and the actin-binding protein ponticulin in Dictyostelium discoideum plasma membranes purified by an improved method." Differentiation 41: 87-98.
	
Ingalls, H. M. (1989). Developmentally-regulated changes in Dictyostelium discoideum plasma membrane protein composition and actin-binding activity. Princeton, NJ, Princeton University: 263.
	
Huss, M. J. (1989). "Dispersal of cellular slime molds by two soil invertebrates." Mycologia 81: 677-682.
	
Hurley, D. L., et al. (1989). "Nuclear DNA synthesis is blocked by UV irradiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mutation. Res. 217: 25-32.
	
Humbel, B. L., et al. (1989). Characterization of crystalline inclusion bodies in Dictyostelium discoideum. Eur. J. Cell Biol.
	
Hughes, J. E. and D. L. Welker (1989). "Copy number control and compatibility of nuclear plasmids in Dictyostelium discoideum." Plasmid 22: 215-223.
	
Houle, J., et al. (1989). "A glycosylation mutation affects cell fate in chimeras of Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 86: 3679-3683.
	
Hopkinson, S. B. (1989). Characterization of BP74, a cAMP inducible gene from Dictyostelium discoideum. Evanston, IL, Northwestern University: 188.
	
Hopkinsen, S. B., et al. (1989). "Expression and organization of BP74, a cyclic AMP-regulated gene expressed during Dictyostelium discoideum development." Mol. Cell. Biol. 9: 4170-4178.
	
Hjorth, A. L., et al. (1989). "A trans-acting factor required for cAMP-induced gene expression in Dictyostelium is regulated developmentally and induced by cAMP." Genes Develop. 3: 747-759.
	
Hjorth, A. L. (1989). Cis- and trans-elements of aggregate-stage genes in Dictyostelium discoideum. La Jolla, CA, University of California, San Diego (UCSD): 159.
	
Heckert, L. L., et al. (1989). "Purification and characterization of the 2-oxoglutarate dehydrogenase complex from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 135: 155-161.
	
Hayes, B. K. and A. Varki (1989). "O-acetylation and de-O-acetylation of sialic acids. Sialic acid esterases of diverse evolutionary origins have serine active sites and essential arginine residues." J. Biol. Chem. 264: 19443-19448.
	
Hassanain, H. H. and W. Kopachik (1989). "Regulatory signals affecting a selective loss of messenger RNA in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 94: 501-509.
	
Hartmann, H., et al. (1989). Characterisation of the 32/34 kD capping protein from Dictyostelium discoideum. Eur. J. Cell Biol.
	
Hartmann, H., et al. (1989). "Ca2+-independent F-actin capping protein Cap 32/34, a capping protein from Dictyostelium discoideum, does not share sequence homologies with known actin-binding proteins." J. Biol. Chem. 264: 12639-12647.
	
Harloff, C., et al. (1989). "Selective elimination of the contact site A protein of Dictyostelium discoideum by gene disruption." Genes Devel. 3: 2011-2019.
	
Hall, A. L., et al. (1989). "Identification of actin nucleation activity and polymerization inhibitor in ameboid cells: their regulation by chemotactic stimulation." J. Cell Biol. 109: 2207-2213.
	
Hall, A. L. (1989). The regulation of actin polymerization during amoeboid chemotaxis in Dictyostelium discoideum. New York, NY, Yeshiva University: 233.
	
Hall, A., et al. (1989). "Transduction of the chemotactic signal to the actin cytoskeleton of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 136: 517-525.
	
Hagiwara, H. (1989). The taxonomic study of Japanese dictyostelid cellular slime molds. Tokyo, Japan, National Science Museum.
	
Hader, D. P. and M. Hader (1989). "Effects of solar radiation on development in the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum." Photochem. Photobiol. 50: 577-580.
	
Gundersen, R. E., et al. (1989). Reversible phosphorylation of G-protein-coupled receptors controls cAMP oscillations in Dictyostelium. Cell to cell signalling: from experiments to theoretical models. A. Goldbeter. London, Ac. Press: 477-488.
	
Gonzalez-Yanes, B., et al. (1989). "The spore coat of a fucosylation mutant in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 133: 567-587.
	
Goldbeter, A. and B. Wurster (1989). "Regular oscillations in suspensions of a putatively chaotic mutant of Dictyostelium discoideum." Experientia 45: 363-365.
	
Goldbeter, A. and Y. X. Li (1989). Frequency coding in intercellular communication. Cell to cell signalling: from experiments to theoretical models. A. Goldbeter. London, Ac. Press: 415-432.
	
Glaves, M. L. and D. A. Cotter (1989). "Environmental parameters limiting spore germination in a spontaneously germinating mutant of Dictyostelium discoideum." Mycologia 81: 115-121.
	
Giorda, R., et al. (1989). "Organization of a gene family developmentally regulated during Dictyostelium discoideum spore germination." J. Mol. Biol. 205: 63-69.
	
Ginsburg, G. and A. R. Kimmel (1989). "Inositol trisphosphate and diacylglycerol can differentially modulate gene expression in Dictyostelium." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 86: 9332-9336.
	
Gerisch, G., et al. (1989). "Isolation and behavioral analysis of mutants defective in cytoskeletal proteins." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 14: 75-79.
	
Gerisch, G. (1989). Musterbildung und Signalubertragung wahrend der Entwicklung eines einfachen vielzelligen Organismus. Nova Acta Leopoldina.
	
Gerisch, G. (1989). Ein Mikroorganismus zum Studium von Zellinteraktionen. Max Planck Gesellschaft, Berichte und Mitteilungen "Friedrich Meister Laboratorium in der Max Planck Gesellschaft Tubingen". Munich, Germany, Max-Planck-Gesellschaft. 3: 31-39.
	
Fukui, Y., et al. (1989). "Myosin I is located at the leading edges of locomoting Dictyostelium amoebae." Nature 341: 328-331.
	
Freeze, H. H., et al. (1989). "Two mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum that lack a sulfated carbohydrate antigenic determinant synthesize a truncated lipid-linked precursor of N-linked oligosaccharides." J. Biol. Chem. 264: 5653-5659.
	
Freeze, H. H., et al. (1989). "The effects of altered N-linked oligosaccharide structures on maturation and largeting of lysosomal enzymes in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 264: 19278-19286.
	
Freeze, H. H., et al. (1989). Analysis of N-glycosylation mutants in Dictyostelium discoideum. Glycobiology (UCLA Symp. Mol. Cell. Biol. New Series). J. K. Welply and E. Jaworski. New York, Wiley-Liss: 197-198.
	
Fosnaugh, K. L. and W. F. Loomis (1989). "Sequence of the Dictyostelium discoideum spore coat gene SP96." Nucl. Acids Res. 17: 9489-9490.
	
Fosnaugh, K. L. and W. F. Loomis (1989). "Spore coat genes SP60 and SP70 of Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cell. Biol. 9: 5215-5218.
	
Fontana, D. R. and P. L. Price (1989). "Cell-cell contact elicits cAMP-secretion and alters cAMP signaling in Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 41: 184-192.
	
Fisher, P. R., et al. (1989). "Quantitative analysis of cell motility and chemotaxis in Dictyostelium discoideum by using an image processing system and a novel chemotaxis chamber providing stationary chemical gradients." J. Cell Biol. 108: 973-984.
	
Firtel, R. A., et al. (1989). "G protein linked signal transduction pathways in development: Dictyostelium as an experimental system." Cell 58: 235-239.
	
Faure, M., et al. (1989). "Rescue of a Dictyostelium discoideum mutant defective in cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase." Dev. Biol. 131: 366-372.
	
Faure, M., et al. (1989). "Molecular characterization of a Dictyostelium discoideum gene encoding a multifunctional enzyme of the pyrimidine pathway." Eur. J. Biochem. 179: 345-358.
	
Farrar, N. A. (1989). Nuclear plasmids of Dictyostelium discoideum. Sydney, Australia, Macquarie University.
	
Europe-Finner, G. N., et al. (1989). "Inositol tris- and polyphosphate formation during chemotaxis of Dictyostelium." J. Cell Sci. 93: 585-592.
	
Erdos, G. W. and C. M. West (1989). "Formation and organization of the spore coat of Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Mycol. 13: 169-182.
	
el Hajji, M., et al. (1989). "Interaction of trichorzianins A and B with model membranes and with the amoeba Dictyostelium." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 978: 97-104.
	
Eisenberg, R. M., et al. (1989). "The cellular slime mold guild and its bacterial prey: growth rate variation at the inter- and intraspecific levels." Oecologia 79: 458-462.
	
Egelhoff, T. T., et al. (1989). "Hygromycin resistance as a selectable marker in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cell. Biol. 9: 1965-1968.
	
Ebert, D. L., et al. (1989). "A Dictyostelium discoideum mutant that missorts and oversecretes lysosomal enzyme precursors is defective in endocytosis." J. Cell Biol. 109: 1445-1456.
	
Ebert, D. L., et al. (1989). "Biogenesis of lysosomal enzymes in the alpha-glucosidase II-deficient modA mutant of Dictyostelium discoideum: retention of alpha-1,3-linked glucose on N-linked oligosaccharides delays intracellular transport but does not alter sorting of alpha-mannosidase or beta-glucosidase." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 273: 479-490.
	
Early, A. E. and J. G. Williams (1989). "Identification of sequences regulating the transcription of a Dictyostelium gene selectively expressed in prespore cells." Nucl. Acids Res. 17: 6473-6484.
	
Dynes, J. L. and R. A. Firtel (1989). "Molecular complementation of a genetic marker in Dictyostelium using a genomic DNA library." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 86: 7966-7970.
	
Dingermann, T., et al. (1989). "Optimization and in situ detection of Escherichia coli beta-galactosidase gene expression in Dictyostelium discoideum." Gene 85: 353-362.
	
Dingermann, T., et al. (1989). "tRNAglu(GAA) genes from the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." DNA 8: 193-204.
	
Dharmawardhane, S., et al. (1989). "Changes in the association of actin-binding proteins with the actin cytoskeleton during chemotactic stimulation of Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 13: 57-63.
	
Devreotes, P. (1989). "Cell-cell interactions in Dictyostelium development." Trends Genet. (TIG) 5: 242-245.
	
Devreotes, P. (1989). "Dictyostelium discoideum: a model system for cell-cell interactions in development." Science 245: 1054-1058.
	
De Lozanne, A. (1989). "Gene targeting and cell motility." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 14: 62-68.
	
Darcy, P. K. and P. R. Fisher (1989). "A role for G-proteins and inositol phosphate signalling in Dictyostelium discoideum slug behaviour." J. Gen. Microbiol. 135: 1909-1915.
	
da Silva, A. M. and C. Klein (1989). "Characterization of a glycosyl-phosphatidylinositol degrading activity in Dictyostelium discoideum membranes." Exp. Cell Res. 185: 464-472.
	
Czarniewicz, H. E. (1989). The expression of ubiquitin and presence ubiquitin-protein conjugates in Dictyostelium discoideum as a function of heat shock and development and the purine salvage pathway in Methanobacterium thermoautotrophicum. Lowell, MA, University of Lowell: 211.
	
Crandall, I. E. and P. C. Newell (1989). "Changes in cell surface glycoproteins during Dictyostelium development analysed using monoclonal antibodies." Development 107: 87-94.
	
Cotter, D. A. and M. L. Glaves (1989). "Temporal control of autoactivator synthesis and secretion during spontaneous spore germination in Dictyostelium discoideum." Arch. Microbiol. 152: 44-51.
	
Chia, C. P. and E. J. Luna (1989). "Phagocytosis in Dictyostelium discoideum is inhibited by antibodies directed primarily against common carbohydrate epitopes of a major cell-surface plasma membrane glycoprotein." Exp. Cell Res. 181: 11-26.
	
Chang, A. C. M., et al. (1989). "Complementation of a Dictyostelium discoideum thymidylate synthase mutation with the mouse gene provides a new selectable marker for transformation." Nucl. Acids Res. 17: 3655-3661.
	
Cavender, J. C. and K. Kawabe (1989). "Cellular slime molds of Japan. I. Distribution and biogeographical considerations." Mycologia 81: 683-691.
	
Cardelli, J. A., et al. (1989). "Role of acidic intracellular compartments in the biosynthesis of Dictyostelium lysosomal enzymes.  The weak bases ammonium chloride and chloroquine differentially affect proteolytic processing and sorting." J. Biol. Chem. 264: 3454-3463.
	
Butler, M. H. and B. E. Wright (1989). "Pyruvate oxidation in vivo and in vitro in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 991: 337-339.
	
Butler, M. H. (1989). "Purification and characterization of succinate dehydrogenase from Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Mycol. 13: 294-298.
	
Bush, J. M. and J. A. Cardelli (1989). "Processing, transport, and secretion of the lysosomal enzyme acid phosphatase in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 264: 7630-7636.
	
Browne, L. H., et al. (1989). "Re-expression of 117 antigen, a cell surface glycoprotein of aggregating cells, during terminal differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum prespore cells." Development 105: 657-664.
	
Brock, A. M. (1989). Regulation of actin cytoskeleton rearrangements during Dictyostelium cell motility and vaccinia virus infection (virus). New York, NY, Cornell University Medical College: 166.
	
Brewster, N. K. and J. F. Wheldrake (1989). "Free radical scavenging agents during the development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Int. 19: 439-444.
	
Bray, D. and J. Vasiliev (1989). Cell Motility: Networks from Mutants. (News and Views). Nature. 338: 203-204.
	
Bradbury, J. M. and J. D. Gross (1989). "The effect of ammonia on cell-type-specific enzyme accumulation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Differ. Devel. 27: 121-128.
	
Bonner, J. T., et al. (1989). "Ammonia and thermotaxis: Further evidence for a central role of ammonia in the directed cell mass movements of Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 86: 2733-2736.
	
Bonner, J. T. (1989). The evolution of morphogens. Cell to cell signalling: from experiments to theoretical models. A. Goldbeter. London, Ac. Press: 123-132.
	
Bominaar, A. A., et al. (1989). Signal-transducing G-proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum. The guanine-nucleotide binding proteins: Common structural and functional properties. L. Bosch, B. Kraal and A. Parmeggiani. New York, Plenum Press: 369-375.
	
Blumberg, D. D., et al. (1989). "Ca++ antagonists distinguish different requirements for cAMP mediated gene expression in the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 41: 14-21.
	
Blanchard, A., et al. (1989). "The structure and function of alpha-actinin." J. Muscle Res. Cell Motil. 10: 280-289.
	
Bhanot, P. and G. Weeks (1989). "Studies on the mechanism of action of the alkaline phosphatase from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 995: 291-294.
	
Bhanot, P. and G. Weeks (1989). "The activation of Dictyostelium discoideum alkaline phosphatase by carbohydrate binding proteins." Biochem. Cell Biol. 67: 246-249.
	
Berks, M. (1989). "Cellular signaling during Dictyostelium morphogenesis." Sci. Prog. 73: 17-32.
	
Armstrong, D. J. and R. A. Firtel (1989). "Cytokinin oxidase activity in the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 136: 491-499.
	
Anschutz, A., et al. (1989). "GDP stimulates the phosphorylation of a 36-kDa membrane protein in Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 86: 3665-3668.
	
Andre, E., et al. (1989). "A Dictyostelium mutant deficient in severin, an F-actin fragmenting protein, shows normal motility and chemotaxis." J. Cell Biol. 108: 985-995.
	
Amatayakul, S. (1989). Changes in N-glycosylation associated with development and pathology. Oxford, UK, University of Oxford: 208.
	
Amagai, A. (1989). "Induction of zygote formation by ethylene during the sexual development of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 41: 176-183.
	
Albe, K. R. and B. E. Wright (1989). "Purification and kinetic characterization of uridine phosphorylase from Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Mycol. 13: 13-19.
	
Albe, K. R. (1989). Pentose metabolism and control analysis in the tricarboxylic acid cycle of Dictyostelium discoideum. Missoula, MT, University of Montana: 127.
	
Aeckerle, S. and D. Malchow (1989). "Calcium regulates cAMP-induced potassium ion efflux in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 1012: 196-200.
	
Abe, T. and Y. Maeda (1989). "The prestalk/prespore differentiation and polarized cell movement in Dictyostelium discoideum slugs. A possible involvement of the intracellular Ca2+ -concentration." Protoplasma 151: 175-178.
	
Ziska, S. E. and E. J. Henderson (1988). "Cell surface oligosaccharides participate in cohesion during aggregation of Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 85: 817-821.
	
Yan, Z. (1988). A membrane associated, stage specific inhibitor of the aggregation related cohesion system in Dictyostelium discoideum. Pittsburgh, PA, University of Pittsburgh: 144.
	
Yamada, Y., et al. (1988). "Comparison of spore proteins among species of the cellular slime moulds Dictyostelium and Polysphondylium as examined by immunological cross-reactivity." Can. J. Microbiol. 34: 891-896.
	
Wurster, B. (1988). Periodic cell communication in Dictyostelium discoideum. From chemical to biological organization. M. Markus, S. C. Muller and G. Nicolis. Berlin, Springer-Verlag: 255-259.
	
Wuestehube, L. J. (1988). Identification and characterization of ponticulin, a 17-kd actin binding integral glycoprotein from Dictyostelium discoideum plasma membranes. Princeton, NJ, Princeton University: 207.
	
Wright, B. E. and J. M. Reimers (1988). "Steady-state models of glucose-perturbed Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 263: 14906-14912.
	
Williams, J. G. (1988). "The role of diffusible molecules in regulating the cellular differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum." Development 103: 1-16.
	
West, C. M. and G. W. Erdos (1988). "The expression of glycoproteins in the extracellular matrix of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Differ. 23: 1-16.
	
West, C. M. and S. A. Brownstein (1988). "EDTA treatment alters protein glycosylation in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Cell Res. 175: 26-36.
	
Wessels, D., et al. (1988). "Cell motility and chemotaxis in Dictyostelium amebae lacking myosin heavy chain." Dev. Biol. 128: 164-177.
	
Welker, D. L. (1988). "The discoidin I gene family of Dictyostelium discoideum is linked to genes regulating its expression." Genetics 119: 571-578.
	
Warrick, H. M. and J. A. Spudich (1988). "Codon preference in Dictyostelium discoideum." Nucl. Acids Res. 16: 6617-6635.
	
Wanner, R. and B. Wurster (1988). Cyclic GMP regulated protein kinase from Dictyostelium discoideum. Biol. Chem. H-S.
	
Wang, M., et al. (1988). "Localization of chemoattractant receptors on Dictyostelium discoideum cells during aggregation and down-regulation." Dev. Biol. 128: 72-77.
	
Wang, M., et al. (1988). "Cyclic AMP-phosphodiesterase induces dedifferentiation of prespore cells in Dictyostelium discoideum slugs: evidence that cyclic AMP is the morphogenetic signal for prespore differentiation." Development 103: 611-618.
	
Wang, M., et al. (1988). "Cell cycle phase in Dictyostelium discoideum is correlated with the expression of cyclic AMP production, detection, and degradation.  Involvement of cyclic AMP signaling in cell sorting." Dev. Biol. 125: 410-416.
	
Wagle, G., et al. (1988). "Phosphorylation of threonine residues on cloned fragments of the Dictyostelium myosin heavy chain." FEBS Lett. 227: 71-75.
	
Waddell, D. R. (1988). "Cell size in Dictyostelium." Dev. Genet. 9: 673-681.
	
Veron, M., et al. (1988). "cAMP-dependent protein kinase from Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Genet. 9: 247-258.
	
Vaughan, R. A. and P. N. Devreotes (1988). "Ligand-induced phosphorylation of the cAMP receptor from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 263: 14538-14543.
	
Varnum-Finney, B., et al. (1988). "Adaptation in the motility response to cAMP in Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 9: 9-16.
	
van Lookeren Campagne, M. M., et al. (1988). "Lithium respecifies cyclic AMP-induced cell-type specific gene expression in Dictyostelium." Dev. Genet. 9: 589-596.
	
van Lookeren Campagne, M. M., et al. (1988). "Two dephosphorylation pathways of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate in homogenates of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. J. 254: 343-350.
	
van Lookeren Campagne, M. M. (1988). The regulation of cell-type specific gene expression in Dictyostelium. Leiden, Rul: 97.
	
van Duijn, B., et al. (1988). "Electrophysiological properties of Dictyostelium derived from membrane potential measurements with microelectrodes." J. Membrane Biol. 106: 123-134.
	
Valencia, A., et al. (1988). "Developmental changes in the structural organization of the lectin discoidin I detected by limited proteolysis." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 152: 1332-1338.
	
Vaillancourt, J. P., et al. (1988). "Identification of two phosphorylated threonines in the tail region of Dictyostelium myosin II." J. Biol. Chem. 263: 10082-10087.
	
Urushihara, H., et al. (1988). "A membrane protein with possible relevance to sexual cell fusion in Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Differ. Devel. 25: 81-88.
	
Tsang, A., et al. (1988). "Characterization of an unusual cAMP receptor and its related polypeptides in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Genet. 9: 237-245.
	
Todd, I., et al. (1988). "Mapping cell-glass contacts of Dictyostelium amoebae by total internal reflection aqueous fluorescence overcomes a basic ambiguity of interference reflection microscopy." J. Cell Sci. 89: 107-114.
	
Thiery, R., et al. (1988). "Phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate modulates the cAMP-induced light-scattering response of a Dictyostelium discoideum cell population." FEBS Lett. 241: 149-153.
	
Tasaka, M., et al. (1988). "Developmental regulation of a prestalk- and stalk-enriched protein in Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 39: 16-21.
	
Takeuchi, I., et al. (1988). "Cell behaviour during formation of prestalk/prespore pattern in submerged agglomerates of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Genet. 9: 607-614.
	
Sternfeld, J. (1988). "Proportion regulation in Dictyostelium is altered by oxygen." Differentiation 37: 173-179.
	
Steel, L. F. and A. Jacobson (1988). "Post-transcriptional regulation of ribosomal protein gene expression during development in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Genet. 9: 421-434.
	
Spudich, A. (1988). The structure and function of actin in the cell cortex. Stanford, CA, Stanford University: 229.
	
Spek, W., et al. (1988). "Opposite effects of adenosine on two types of cAMP-induced gene expression in Dictyostelium indicate the involvement of at least two different intracellular pathways for the transduction of cAMP signals." FEBS Lett. 228: 231-234.
	
Soll, D. R., et al. (1988). ""Dynamic morphology system": a method for quantitating changes in shape, pseudopod formation, and motion in normal and mutant amoebae of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell. Biochem. 37: 177-192.
	
Soll, D. R. and B. Kraft (1988). "A comparison of high frequency switching in the yeast Candida albicans and the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Genet. 9: 615-628.
	
Soll, D. R. (1988). ""DMS", a computer-assisted system for quantitating motility, the dynamics of cytoplasmic flow, and pseudopod formation: Its application to Dictyostelium chemotaxis." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 10: 91-106.
	
Sobolewski, A. and G. Weeks (1988). "The requirement for DIF for prestalk and stalk cell formation in Dictyostelium discoideum: A comparison of in vivo and in vitro differentiation conditions." Dev. Biol. 127: 296-303.
	
Sobolewski, A., et al. (1988). "Stalk cell formation in monolayers of Dictyostelium discoideum V12-M2." Dev. Genet. 9: 597-606.
	
Snaar-Jagalska, B. E. and P. J. M. van Haastert (1988). "Dictyostelium discoideum mutant synag 7 with altered G-protein-adenylate cyclase interaction." J. Cell Sci. 91: 287-294.
	
Snaar-Jagalska, B. E., et al. (1988). "G-proteins in the signal-transduction pathways of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Genet. 9: 215-226.
	
Snaar-Jagalska, B. E., et al. (1988). "Immunological detection of G-protein alpha-subunits in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 156: 757-761.
	
Snaar-Jagalska, B. E., et al. (1988). "Agonist-stimulated high-affinity GTPase in Dictyostelium membranes." FEBS Lett. 236: 139-144.
	
Snaar-Jagalska, B. E., et al. (1988). "Ligand-induced modification of a surface cAMP receptor of Dictyostelium discoideum does not require its occupancy." J. Biol. Chem. 263: 897-901.
	
Snaar-Jagalska, B. E., et al. (1988). "Pertussis toxin inhibits cAMP surface receptor-stimulated binding of (35S)GTPgammaS to Dictyostelium discoideum membranes." FEBS Lett. 232: 148-152.
	
Snaar-Jagalska, B. E. (1988). G-protein in the signal transduction of Dictyostelium discoideum. Leiden, Rul: 110.
	
Siu, C. H., et al. (1988). "Molecular mechanisms of cell-cell interaction in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Cell. Biol. 66: 1089-1099.
	
Siu, C.-H., et al. (1988). "Expression of the contact site A glycoprotein in Dictyostelium discoideum: quantitation and developmental regulation." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 968: 283-290.
	
Siu, C.-H. and T. Y. Lam (1988). "Mediation of cell-cell adhesion by the altered contact site A glycoprotein expressed in modB mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Cell Res. 177: 338-346.
	
Singleton, C. K., et al. (1988). "Deactivation of gene expression upon the onset of development in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Genet. 9: 327-336.
	
Singleton, C. K., et al. (1988). "Effect of protein synthesis inhibition on gene expression during early development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cell. Biol. 8: 10-16.
	
Singleton, C. K., et al. (1988). "Characterization of genes which are transiently expressed during the preaggregative phase of development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 129: 140-146.
	
Simon, M. N., et al. (1988). "Vectors for expression of truncated coding sequences in Escherichia coli." Plasmid 19: 94-102.
	
Simon, J. R. (1988). The molecular mobility of alpha-actinin and actin in a reconstituted model of gelation. Pittsburgh, PA, Carnegie-Mellon University: 192.
	
Sharkey, D., et al. (1988). Dictyostelium discoideum contains an N-acetylglucosamine transferase that adds an intersecting N-acetylglucosamine to high mannose oligosaccharides. FASEB J.
	
Shapiro, R. A., et al. (1988). "Determinants of mRNA stability in Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae: differences in poly(A) tail length, ribosome loading, and mRNA size cannot account for the heterogeneity of mRNA decay rates." Mol. Cell. Biol. 8: 1957-1969.
	
Segall, J. E., et al. (1988). "Analysis of a Dictyostelium chemotaxis mutant with altered chemoattractant binding." J. Cell Sci. 91: 479-489.
	
Segall, J. E. (1988). "Quantification of motility and area changes of Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae in response to chemoattractants." J. Muscle Res. Cell Motil. 9: 481-490.
	
Segall, J., et al. (1988). Chemotactic responses of Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae. Cell Motil. Cytoskel.
	
Schwartz, M. A. and E. J. Luna (1988). "How actin binds and assembles onto plasma membranes from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Biol. 107: 201-209.
	
Schleicher, M., et al. (1988). "Construction and analysis of Dictyostelium mutants with defects in actin-binding proteins." Protoplasma Suppl. 2: 22-26.
	
Schleicher, M., et al. (1988). "A Dictyostelium mutant with severe defects in alpha-actinin: Its characterization using cDNA probes and monoclonal antibodies." J. Cell Sci. 90: 59-71.
	
Schleicher, M., et al. (1988). "Actin-binding proteins are conserved from slime molds to man." Dev. Genet. 9: 521-530.
	
Schaller, K. O. (1988). The regulatory subunit of a cyclic-AMP-dependent protein kinase in Dictyostelium discoideum: synthesis, cellular localization and isolation of a putative second regulatory subunit. Denver, CO, University of Colorado Health Sciences Center: 274.
	
Saxe, S. A. and A. R. Kimmel (1988). "Genes encoding novel GTP-binding proteins in Dictyostelium." Dev. Genet. 9: 259-266.
	
Saxe III, C. L., et al. (1988). "Gene expression in Dictyostelium discoideum: the changing cAMP story." ASM News 54: 293-298.
	
Saxe III, C. L., et al. (1988). "Structure and expression of the cAMP cell-surface receptor." Dev. Genet. 9: 227-236.
	
Sameshima, M., et al. (1988). "The position of the microtubule-organizing center relative to the nucleus is independent of the direction of cell migration in Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 9: 111-116.
	
Saing, K. M., et al. (1988). "Formation of deletion in Escherichia coli between direct repeats located in the long inverted repeats of a cellular slime mold plasmid: participation of DNA gyrase." Mol. Gen. Genet. 214: 1-5.
	
Sadeghi, H. and C. Klein (1988). "Inhibition of N-linked glycosylation in Dictyostelium discoideum: Effects of aggregate formation." Differentiation 38: 99-103.
	
Sadeghi, H., et al. (1988). "Evidence that a glycolipid tail anchors antigen 117 to the plasma membrane of Dictyostelium discoideum cells." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 85: 5512-5515.
	
Sadeghi, H., et al. (1988). "Biosynthesis of 117 antigen: a cell cohesion molecule in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Genet. 9: 561-568.
	
Rutherford, C. L., et al. (1988). "Glycogen phosphorylase in Dictyostelium discoideum: demonstration of two developmentally regulated forms, purification to homogeneity, immunochemical analysis cAMP induction, in vitro translation, and molecular cloning." Dev. Genet. 9: 469-482.
	
Roos, U., et al. (1988). Spindle dynamics in cellular slime molds: A comparative study. Cell Motil. Cytoskel.
	
Riley, G. R. (1988). Differential synthesis and processing of glycoprotein linked oligosaccharides in the prespore and prestalk cells of Dictyostelium discoideum. Washington, DC, Georgetown University: 269.
	
Richardson, J. M., et al. (1988). "Inhibition of early but not late proteolytic processing events leads to the missorting and oversecretion of precursor forms of lysosomal enzymes in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Biol. 107: 2097-2107.
	
Reindl, N., et al. (1988). Nonsense suppression in Dictyostelium discoideum. Biol. Chem. H-S.
	
Ralph, W. (1988). "Slime mold shows potential as alternative host-vector (interview with Keith Williams)." Genetic Engin. News (GEN) 8 Sept.: 1 and 8 and 42.
	
Pupillo, M., et al. (1988). "cAMP receptor and G-protein interactions control developments in Dictyostelium." CSH Symp. Quant. Biol. 53: 657-666.
	
Podgorski, G. J., et al. (1988). "The cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase of Dictyostelium discoideum: the structure of the gene and its regulation and role in development." Dev. Genet. 9: 267-278.
	
Peters, D. J. M., et al. (1988). "Signal transduction, chemotaxis, and cell aggregation in Dictyostelium discoideum cells without myosin heavy chain." Dev. Biol. 128: 158-163.
	
Pears, C. J. and J. G. Williams (1988). "Multiple copies of a G-rich element upstream of a cAMP-inducible Dictyostelium gene are necessary but not sufficient for efficient gene expression." Nucl. Acids Res. 16: 8467-8486.
	
Pavlovic, J., et al. (1988). "Transmembrane signal transduction regulates gene expression in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Genet. 9: 371-382.
	
Pardee, J., et al. (1988). Regulation of Dictyostelium myosin assembly by actin filament networks. Biophys. J.
	
Pamula, F. and J. F. Wheldrake (1988). "Properties and developmental regulation of the protein phosphatases in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Int. 17: 535-543.
	
Ozaki, T., et al. (1988). "Molecular cloning of cell-type-specific cDNAs exhibiting new types of developmental regulation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Differ. 23: 119-124.
	
Oyama, M., et al. (1988). "Role of cyclic AMP and ammonia in induction and maintenance of post-aggregative differentiation in a suspension culture of Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 38: 11-16.
	
Owens, N. F., et al. (1988). "Cell adhesion to hydroxyl groups of a monolayer film." J. Cell Sci. 91: 269-279.
	
Owens, N. F., et al. (1988). "Contact-mediated triggering of lamella formation by Dictyostelium amoebae on solid surfaces." J. Cell Sci. 91: 367-378.
	
Othmer, G. H. and P. B. Monk (1988). Concentration waves in aggregation fields of a cellular slime mold. Biomathematics and related computational problems. L. M. Ricciardi. Dordrecht, Boston, Kluwer: 381-398.
	
Orii, H., et al. (1988). "Developmentally and cAMP regulated gene expression of the plasmid pDG1 in Dictyostelium discoideum transformant." Bot. Mag. Tokyo 101: 163-173.
	
Okaichi, K., et al. (1988). DNA damage and its repair in Dictyostelium discoideum irradiated by a health lamp (UVB). J. Radiat. Res.
	
Ohnishi, T., et al. (1988). "Hyperthermic effects on DNA repair of UV-irradiated Dictyostelium discoideum." Int. J. Radiat. Biol. 54: 651-658.
	
Ogihara, S., et al. (1988). "Electron microscopic localization of myosin 2 and ABP-120 in the cortical actin matrix of Dictyostelium amoebae using lgG-gold conjugates." Dev. Genet. 9: 505-520.
	
Nultsch, W. and D. P. Hader (1988). "Review article - Photomovement in motile microorganisms--II." Photochem. Photobiol. 47: 837-869.
	
North, M. J., et al. (1988). "Multiple cysteine proteinase forms during the life cycle of Dictyostelium discoideum revealed by electrophoretic analysis." Biochem. J. 254: 261-268.
	
North, M. J. (1988). "A bacterial factor induces changes in cysteine proteinase forms in the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. J. 254: 269-275.
	
Noegel, A. A. and W. Witke (1988). "Inactivation of the alpha-actinin gene in Dictyostelium." Dev. Genet. 9: 531-538.
	
Newth-Clark, C. K. (1988). The relationship between the aggregation-deficient mutant, aggA586, D factor and the acrasin of Polysphondylium violaceum. Troy, NY, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute: 209.
	
Newell, P. C., et al. (1988). "Inositol phosphates, G-proteins and ras genes involved in chemotactic signal transduction of Dictyostelium." J. Cell Sci. 89: 123-127.
	
Ness, P. J., et al. (1988). "Topoisomerase I cleavage sites identified and mapped in the chromatin of Dictyostelium ribosomal RNA genes." J. Mol. Biol. 200: 127-139.
	
Nellen, W. and U. Saur (1988). "Cell-cycle dependent transformation competence in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 154: 54-59.
	
Naranan, V., et al. (1988). "The relationship between two forms of glycogen phosphorylase in Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 38: 1-10.
	
Naranan, V., et al. (1988). "Glycogen phosphorylase b in Dictyostelium: stability and endogenous phosphorylation." Mol. Cell. Biochem. 83: 89-104.
	
Nanjundiah, V. (1988). "Periodic stimuli are more successful than randomly spaced ones for inducing development in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biosci. Reports 8: 571-578.
	
Mutzel, R., et al. (1988). "Expression and properties of the regulatory subunit of Dictyostelium cAMP-dependent protein kinase encoded by lambda gt11 cDNA clones." Biochemistry 27: 481-486.
	
Muller-Taubenberger, A., et al. (1988). Extended ubiquitin in Dictyostelium discoideum: an antibody against the carboxyl terminus reacts with a cytoplasmic fraction. The Ubiquitin System (Current Communications in Molecular Biology). M. Schlesinger and A. Hershko. Cold Spring Harbor, NY, CSH Lab.: 67-71.
	
Muller-Taubenberger, A., et al. (1988). "Complete cDNA sequence of a Dictyostelium ubiquitin with a carboxy-terminal tail and identification of the protein using an anti-peptide antibody." FEBS Lett. 229: 273-278.
	
Muller-Taubenberger, A., et al. (1988). "Ubiquitin gene expression in Dictyostelium is induced by heat and cold shock, cadmium, and inhibitors of protein synthesis." J. Cell Sci. 90: 51-58.
	
Morris, H. R., et al. (1988). "Structure elucidation of two differentiation inducing factors (DIF-2 and DIF-3) from the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. J. 249: 903-906.
	
Moriyama, R. and K. Yanagisawa (1988). "Synthesis of specific proteins for sexual development in Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Differ. 23: 143-152.
	
Milne, J. L. and M. B. Coukell (1988). "Isolation and characterization of a plasma membrane calcium pump from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. J. 249: 223-230.
	
Meier, K. and C. Klein (1988). "An unusual protein kinase phosphorylates the chemotactic receptor of Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 85: 2181-2185.
	
McRobbie, S. J., et al. (1988). "Identification and localization of proteins encoded by two DIF-inducible genes of Dictyostelium." Dev. Biol. 125: 59-63.
	
McRobbie, S. J., et al. (1988). "Two DIF-inducible, prestalk-specific mRNAs of Dictyostelium encode extracellular matrix protein of the slug." Development 104: 275-284.
	
McRobbie, S. J. and A. Ceccarelli (1988). "Complete nucleotide sequence of a DIF-inducible, stalk-specific mRNA from Dictyostelium discoideum." Nucl. Acids Res. 16: 4738.
	
McNally, J. G. and E. C. Cox (1988). "Geometry and spatial patterns in Polysphondylium pallidum." Dev. Genet. 9: 663-672.
	
Masento, M. S., et al. (1988). "Differentiation-inducing factor from the slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum and its analogues.  Synthesis, structure and biological activity." Biochem. J. 256: 23-28.
	
Masento, M. S., et al. (1988). "Morphogens from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biomed. Env. Mass Spectrom. 16: 353-357.
	
Martin, P. J. (1988). Purine metabolizing enzymes in Dictyostelium discoideum: evaluation of adenylate kinase and nonspecific nucleotidase in the cytosol. Lowell, MA, University of Lowell: 85.
	
Manrow, R. E., et al. (1988). "Regulation of mRNA stability and the poly(A) problem in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Genet. 9: 403-419.
	
Manrow, R. E. and A. Jacobson (1988). "mRNA decay rates in late-developing Dictyostelium discoideum cells are heterogeneous, and cyclic AMP does not act directly to stabilize cell-type-specific mRNAs." Mol. Cell. Biol. 8: 4088-4097.
	
Mann, S. K. O., et al. (1988). "Regulation of Dictyostelium early gene expression in cAMP bypass mutants." Dev. Biol. 130: 406-410.
	
Mann, S. K. O., et al. (1988). "Control of early gene expression in Dictyostelium." Dev. Genet. 9: 337-350.
	
Mann, S. K. O., et al. (1988). "cAMP regulation of early gene expression in signal transduction mutants of Dictyostelium." Dev. Biol. 130: 294-303.
	
Mann, S. K. O. (1988). Cyclic AMP regulation of early gene expression in Dictyostelium discoideum. La Jolla, CA, University of California, San Diego (UCSD): 187.
	
Maniak, M. and W. Nellen (1988). "A developmentally regulated membrane protein gene in Dictyostelium discoideum is also induced by heat shock and cold shock." Mol. Cell. Biol. 8: 153-159.
	
Malliaros, D. P. (1988). AMP deaminase from Dictyostelium discoideum: purification, properties, and regulation during early morphogenesis. Lowell, MA, University of Lowell: 183.
	
Maeda, Y. (1988). "Changes of endocytotic activities during the cell cycle of Dictyostelium cells." Devel. Growth Differ. 30: 15-24.
	
Maeda, M. (1988). "Dual effects of cAMP on the stability of prespore vesicles and 8-bromo cAMP-enhanced maturation of spore and stalk cells of Dictyostelium discoideum." Devel. Growth Differ. 30: 573-587.
	
MacDonald, J. I. S. and G. Weeks (1988). "Purification and characterization of a Ca2+ or Mg2+ stimulated ATPase from plasma membrane enriched fractions of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 945: 211-220.
	
MacDonald, J. I. S. and G. Weeks (1988). "Evidence for a membrane-bound pyrophosphatase in Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 238: 9-12.
	
Lydan, M. A. and D. H. O'Day (1988). "Developmental effects of the major ions found in a groundwater sample on sexual cultures of Dictyostelium discoideum." Can. J. Microbiol. 34: 207-211.
	
Lydan, M. A. and D. H. O'Day (1988). "Different developmental functions for calmodulin in Dictyostelium: Trifluoperazine and R24571 both inhibit cell and pronuclear fusion but enhance gamete formation." Exp. Cell Res. 178: 51-63.
	
Lydan, M. and D. H. O'Day (1988). "The role of intracellular Ca2+ during early sexual development in Dictyostelium discoideum: effects of LaCl3, Ins(1,4,5)P3, TMB-8, chlortetracycline and A23187 on cell fusion." J. Cell Sci. 90: 465-473.
	
Luderus, M. E. E., et al. (1988). "Expression of a mutated ras gene in Dictyostelium discoideum alters the binding of cyclic AMP to its chemotactic receptor." J. Cell Sci. 90: 701-706.
	
Luderus, M. E. and R. van Driel (1988). "Interaction between the chemotactic cAMP receptor and a detergent-insoluble membrane residue of Dictyostelium discoideum. Modulation by guanine nucleotides." J. Biol. Chem. 263: 8326-8331.
	
Loomis, W. F. (1988). Four billion years: an essay on the evolution of genes and organisms. Sunderland, MA, Sinauer Associates.
	
Loomis, W. F. (1988). "Cell-cell adhesion in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Genet. 9: 549-559.
	
Loomis, W. F. (1988). Signals that regulate differentiation in Dictyostelium. ISI atlas of science: Immunology. Philadelphia, Inst. Scientific Inform.: 25-30.
	
Liu, G. and P. C. Newell (1988). "Evidence that cyclic GMP regulates myosin interaction with the cytoskeleton during chemotaxis of Dictyostelium." J. Cell Sci. 90: 123-129.
	
Lilly, P., et al. (1988). "Receptor G protein interactions in the development of Dictyostelium." Botanica Acta 101: 123-127.
	
Leung, P. C., et al. (1988). "Characterization of the interaction of ophiobolin A and calmodulin." Int. J. Biochem. 20: 1351-1359.
	
Lenaers, G., et al. (1988). "The secondary structure of large-subunit rRNA divergent domains, a marker for protist evolution." Biosystems 21: 215-222.
	
Leiting, B. and A. Noegel (1988). "Construction of an extrachromosomally replicating transformation vector for Dictyostelium discoideum." Plasmid 20: 241-248.
	
Lavin, M. F. and A. L. Schroeder (1988). "Damage-resistant DNA synthesis in eukaryotes." Mut. Res. 193: 193-206.
	
Kwong, L., et al. (1988). "The effect of cAMP on differentiation inducing factor (DIF)-mediated formation of stalk cells in low-cell-density monolayers of Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 37: 1-6.
	
Kwong, L., et al. (1988). "Stalk cell formation in monolayers from isolated prestalk and prespore cells of Dictyostelium discoideum: evidence for two populations of prestalk cells." Development 104: 121-127.
	
Kumagai, A., et al. (1988). "A molecular analysis of G proteins and control of early gene expression by the cell-surface cAMP receptor in Dictyostelium." CSH Symp. Quant. Biol. 53: 675-686.
	
Kuczmarski, E. R., et al. (1988). "Proteolytic fragmentation of Dictyostelium myosin and localization of the in vivo heavy chain phosphorylation site." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 10: 471-481.
	
Krill, D. C. and C. D. Town (1988). "Arachidonate-dependent oxygen consumption in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 134: 2123-2129.
	
Kraft, B., et al. (1988). "High-frequency switching in Dictyostelium." Dev. Biol. 130: 198-208.
	
Kozwich, D. L. (1988). The molecular and biochemical regulation of adenylate deaminase: a stage specific, developmentally regulated enzyme in Dictyostelium discoideum. Lowell, MA, University of Lowell: 183.
	
Korth, M. J., et al. (1988). "Use of a western blotting technique in the purification of a cysteine proteinase inhibitor." Anal. Biochem. 169: 181-184.
	
Kornfeld, R. and D. Sharkey (1988). Developmental regulation of oligosaccharide processing in Dictyostelium discoideum. FASEB J.
	
Korn, E. D. and J. A. Hammer III (1988). "Myosins of nonmuscle cells." Annu. Rev. Biophysics Biophys. Chem. 17: 23-45.
	
Knecht, D. and W. F. Loomis (1988). "Developmental consequences of the lack of myosin heavy chain in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 128: 178-184.
	
Klein, P. S., et al. (1988). "A chemoattractant receptor controls development in Dictyostelium discoideum." Science 241: 1467-1472.
	
Klein, P. S. (1988). The cyclic-AMP receptor of Dictyostelium: a eukaryotic chemoattractant receptor. Baltimore, MD, The Johns Hopkins University: 76.
	
Klein, P., et al. (1988). "Identification and ligand induced modification of the cAMP receptor in Dictyostelium." Meth. Enzymol. 159: 267-278.
	
Klein, G., et al. (1988). "Methylenediphosphonate, a metabolic poison in Dictyostelium discoideum. 31P NMR evidence for accumulation of adenosine 5'-(beta,gamma-methylenetriphosphate) and diadenosine 5',5'''-P1,P4-(P2,P3-methylenetetraphosphate)." Biochemistry 27: 1897-1901.
	
Klein, G., et al. (1988). "Germination of Dictyostelium discoideum spores. A 31P NMR analysis." Biochemistry 27: 8199-8203.
	
Kitami, M. (1988). "Membrane-potentials of Dictyostelium discoideum cells at the pseudoplasmodial stage." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 55: 269-273.
	
Kimmel, A. R. and W. F. Loomis (1988). Renaissance cells. Dev. Biol. 126: 217-218.
	
Kimmel, A. R. and M. Eisen (1988). "Regulation of gene expression by the intracellular second messengers IP3 and diacylglycerol." Dev. Genet. 9: 351-380.
	
Ketcham, R. B. (1988). Ecological genetics of resource specialization in Polysphondylium pallidum. Newark, DE, University of Delaware: 170.
	
Ketcham, R., et al. (1988). "Do interactions of cellular slime mold species regulate their densities in soil?" Ecology 69: 193-199.
	
Kessin, R. (1988). "Genetics of early Dictyostelium discoideum development." Microbiol. Rev. 52: 29-49.
	
Kesbeke, F. and P. J. M. van Haastert (1988). "Reduced cAMP secretion in Dictyostelium discoideum mutant HB3." Dev. Biol. 130: 464-470.
	
Kesbeke, F., et al. (1988). "Signal transduction in Dictyostelium fgdA mutants with a defective interaction between surface cAMP receptors and a GTP-binding regulatory protein." J. Cell Biol. 107: 521-528.
	
Kayman, S. C., et al. (1988). "MotA 1552, a mutation of Dictyostelium discoideum having pleiotrophic effects on motility and discoidin regulation." Genetics 118: 425-436.
	
Kay, R. R., et al. (1988). "Signals controlling cell differentiation and pattern formation in Dictyostelium." Dev. Genet. 9: 579-587.
	
Kauffman, G., et al. (1988). "Polysphondylium luridum, a new dictyostelid with unique spores." Bot. Helv. 98: 123-131.
	
Katz, K. S. and D. I. Ratner (1988). "Homologous recombination and the repair of double-strand breaks during cotransformation of Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cell. Biol. 8: 2779-2786.
	
Kasir, J., et al. (1988). "Amino acid sequence of S-adenosyl-L-homocysteine hydrolase from Dictyostelium discoideum as deduced from the cDNA sequence." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 153: 359-364.
	
Kasbekar, D. P., et al. (1988). "Rapid identification of non-allelic nystatin resistance mutations in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Genet. 67: 23-28.
	
Kamboj, R. K., et al. (1988). "Mapping of a cell-binding domain in the cell adhesion molecule gp80 of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Biol. 107: 1835-1843.
	
Kamboj, R. K. and C.-H. Siu (1988). "Mapping of the monoclonal antibody 80L5C4 epitope on the cell adhesion molecule gp80 of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 951: 78-84.
	
Judelson, H. S. and R. L. Dimond (1988). "Maturation of asparagine-linked oligosaccharides in Dictyostelium discoideum analyzed with modification-specific probes." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 267: 151-157.
	
Judelson, H. S. and R. L. Dimond (1988). "Developmental changes in glycosylation and targeting of lysosomal proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 37: 7-13.
	
Johns, J. A., et al. (1988). "Colocalization of F-actin and 34-kilodalton actin bundling protein in Dictyostelium amoebae and cultured fibroblasts." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 9: 205-218.
	
Jimenez, B., et al. (1988). "Regulation of diacylglycerol kinase in the transition from quiescence to proliferation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 150: 118-125.
	
Janssens, P. M. W. and C. C. C. de Jong (1988). "A magnesium-dependent guanylate cyclase in cell free preparations of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 150: 405-411.
	
Janssens, P. M. W. (1988). "The evolutionary origin of eukaryotic transmembrane signal transduction." Compar. Biochem. Physiol. 90A: 209-223.
	
Jacquet, M., et al. (1988). "Sequence analysis of the DdPYR5-6 gene coding for UMP synthase in Dictyostelium discoideum and comparison with orotate phosphoribosyl transferases and OMP decarboxylases." Mol. Gen. Genet. 211: 441-445.
	
Isobe, K., et al. (1988). "Properties of the thermolabile ribonuclease of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dokkyo J. Med. Sci. 15: 79-84.
	
Inouye, K. (1988). "Induction by acid load of the maturation of prestalk cells in Dictyostelium discoideum." Development 104: 669-681.
	
Inouye, K. (1988). "Differences in cytoplasmic pH and the sensitivity to acid load between prespore cells and prestalk cells of Dictyostelium." J. Cell Sci. 91: 109-115.
	
Hurley, D. L. and R. A. Deering (1988). "Enhanced thymidine uptake causes the lowered thymidine requirement of D. discoideum auxotroph HPS 401." Exp. Cell Res. 179: 273-281.
	
Hughes, J. E. and D. L. Welker (1988). "A mini-screen technique for analyzing nuclear DNA from a single Dictyostelium colony." Nucl. Acids Res. 16: 2338.
	
Hughes, J. E., et al. (1988). "Nuclear plasmids in the Dictyostelium slime molds." Dev. Genet. 9: 495-504.
	
Howard, P. K., et al. (1988). "Establishment of a transient expression system for Dictyostelium discoideum." Nucl. Acids Res. 16: 2613-2623.
	
Hong, C. B. and W. F. Loomis (1988). "Regulation of SP60 mRNA during development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 950: 61-66.
	
Hollander, B. A., et al. (1988). "An easily made, inexpensive, cover slip carrier for critical point drying." J. Electron Microsc. Techn. 8: 231-232.
	
Hjorth, A., et al. (1988). "Analysis of cis and trans elements involved in cAMP-inducible gene expression in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Genet. 9: 435-454.
	
Hashimoto, Y., et al. (1988). "Studies on tiny fruiting bodies of the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum." Cytologia 53: 337-340.
	
Hashimoto, Y. and K. Matsui (1988). "Thermotaxis and the role of the Dictyostelium discoideum slug tip." Cell Struct. Funct. 13: 189-191.
	
Hanna, M. H., et al. (1988). "Purification characterization and partial structure of D factor from Polysphondylium violaceum." Dev. Genet. 9: 653-662.
	
Hall, A. L., et al. (1988). "Relationship of pseudopod extension to chemotactic hormone-induced actin polymerization in amoeboid cells." J. Cell. Biochem. 37: 285-299.
	
Hagmann, J. (1988). "Developmentally regulated compartmentalization of adenylate cyclase in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell. Biochem. 37: 359-370.
	
Hagiwara, H. (1988). "Dictyostelid cellular slime molds of Aomori prefecture northern Japan." Mem. Natl. Sci. Mus. Tokyo 21: 37-43.
	
Hagiwara, H. (1988). Enumeration of dictyostelid cellular slime molds in the Kathmandu Valley, Nepal. Cryptograms of the Himalayas. M. Watanabe and S. B. Malla. Tsukuba, National Science Museum. 1 (The Kathmandu Valley): 21-27.
	
Hader, D. P., et al. (1988). "Multiple photoreceptors in phototaxis of Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae." Protoplasma 1: 155-161.
	
Gustafson, G. L., et al. (1988). "Dissociation of proteinase-inhibitor complexes by trichloroacetate." Anal. Biochem. 169: 185-188.
	
Guitton, M. C., et al. (1988). "S-Adenosylmethionine, S-adenosylhomocysteine and S-adenosylhomocysteine hydrolase variations during differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Differ. 22: 203-210.
	
Guitton, M.-C., et al. (1988). "Cloning of a cDNA for the S-adenosyl-L-homocysteine hydrolase from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochimie 70: 835-840.
	
Gross, J. D., et al. (1988). "Plasma membrane proton pump inhibition and stalk cell differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 38: 91-98.
	
Greiner, R., et al. (1988). Isolation and characterization of folate deaminase and a folate-binding protein from the cell surface of Dictyostelium discoideum. Biol. Chem. H-S.
	
Graham, T. R., et al. (1988). "Molecular cloning of the cDNA which encodes ·-N-acetylhexosaminidase A from Dictyostelium discoideum. Complete amino acid sequence and homology with the human sequence." J. Biol. Chem. 263: 16823-16829.
	
Graham, T. R. (1988). Molecular cloning of the beta-N-acetylhexosaminidase a gene from Dictyostelium discoideum. St. Louis, MO, Saint Louis University: 99.
	
Gooley, A., et al. (1988). Dictyostelium discoideum cell surface glycoprotein psA, has a mucin-like domain. J. Prot. Chem.
	
Goldbeter, A. and J. L. Martiel (1988). Developmental control of a biological rhythm: the onset of cAMP oscillations in Dictyostelium cells. From chemical to biological organization. M. Markus, S. C. Muller and G. Nicolis. Berlin, Springer-Verlag: 248-254.
	
Goldbeter, A., et al. (1988). "Finding complex oscillatory phenomena in biochemical systems. An empirical approach." Biophys. Chem. 29: 211-217.
	
Glenn, D. and K. L. Williams (1988). "Dictyostelium discoideum: its future in biotechnology." J. Biotechnol. 1: 47-51.
	
Gilbert, D. A. (1988). "On G0 and cell cycle controls. (letter)." BioEssays. 9: 135-136.
	
Gibson, F. P. and D. Hames (1988). "Characterization of a spore protein inducing factor from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 89: 387-395.
	
Furukawa, R., et al. (1988). "Measurement of the cytoplasmic pH of Dictyostelium discoideum using a low light level microspectrofluorometer." J. Cell Biol. 107: 2541-2549.
	
Fukuzawa, M. and H. Ochiai (1988). "Monoclonal antibodies against discoidin I and discoidin II of the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biochem. 103: 884-888.
	
Fujii, O., et al. (1988). "Isolation, purification and properties of lytic enzyme from Polysphondylium pallidum myxamoebae." Agr. Biol. Chem. 52: 3057-3066.
	
Francis, D. and A. Shaffer (1988). "A mutant strain of Polysphondylium with defects in many genes." Dev. Genet. 9: 629-638.
	
Fontana, D. R. and P. L. Price (1988). "Contact alters cAMP metabolism in aggregation-competent Dictyostelium amoebae." Dev. Genet. 9: 279-292.
	
Flotow, H. and J. F. Wheldrake (1988). "Acidic protein kinases of Polysphondylium violaceum: Characterization and developmental regulation." Mol. Cell. Biochem. 84: 105-116.
	
Flicker, P., et al. (1988). Intramolecular and intermolecular interactions of Dictyostelium myosin. Biophys. J.
	
Fisher, P. R. and L. T. Rosenberg (1988). "Chemiluminescence in Dictyostelium discoideum." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 50: 157-161.
	
Fighetti, M., et al. (1988). "Morphological alterations of Dictyostelium amoebae induced by benzimidazole derivatives." Microbiologica 11: 269-278.
	
Feit, I. N. (1988). "Ammonia can stimulate or inhibit aggregate density in Dictyostelium mucoroides: a quantitative test of the hypothesis that ammonia is the aggregation suppressing gas." Dev. Genet. 9: 639-652.
	
Feest, A. and M. F. Madelin (1988). "Seasonal population changes of myxomycetes and associated organisms in five non-woodland soils, and correlations between their numbers and soil characteristics." FEMS Microbiol. Ecol. 53: 141-152.
	
Feest, A. and M. F. Madelin (1988). "Seasonal population changes of myxomycetes and associated organisms in four woodland soils." FEMS Microbiol. Ecol. 53: 133-140.
	
Faure, M., et al. (1988). "Disruption of Dictyostelium discoideum morphogenesis by overproduction of cAMP phosphodiesterase." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 85: 8076-8080.
	
Faure, M., et al. (1988). "Developmental control of the expression of the dihydroorotate dehydrogenase and UMP synthase genes in Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Differ. 22: 159-164.
	
Farrar, N. A. and K. L. Williams (1988). "Nuclear plasmids in the simple eukaryotes Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Dictyostelium discoideum." Trends Genet. (TIG) 4: 343-347.
	
Farrar, N. A., et al. (1988). "Nucleotide sequence of a developmentally regulated Dictyostelium discoideum endogenous plasmid gene and 5' flanking region." Nucl. Acids Res. 16: 10914.
	
Evans, W. B., et al. (1988). "The use of DNA probes for taxonomic study of Dictyostelium wild isolates." Genetics 119: 561-569.
	
Europe-Finner, G. N., et al. (1988). "Mutant ras gene induces elevated levels of inositol tris- and hexakisphosphates in Dictyostelium." J. Cell Sci. 89: 13-20.
	
Ennis, H. L., et al. (1988). Structure of Dictyostelium discoideum ubiquitin genes and cDNAs and their regulation during development. The Ubiquitin System (Current Communications in Molecular Biology). M. Schlesinger and A. Hershko. Cold Spring Harbor, NY, CSH Lab.: 62-66.
	
Ennis, H. L., et al. (1988). "Characterization of genes that are developmentally regulated during Dictyostelium discoideum spore germination." Dev. Genet. 9: 303-314.
	
Ennis, H., et al. (1988). Characterization of a Dictyostelium discoideum developmentally regulated multigene family containing a long internal amino-acid repeat. FASEB J.
	
Early, V. E. and J. G. Williams (1988). "A Dictyostelium prespore-specific gene is transcriptionally repressed by DIF in vitro." Development 103: 519-524.
	
Early, A. E., et al. (1988). "Structural characterization of Dictyostelium discoideum prespore-specific gene D19 and of its product, cell surface glycoprotein PsA." Mol. Cell. Biol. 8: 3458-3466.
	
Early, A., et al. (1988). "Structural and functional characterization of genes encoding Dictyostelium prestalk and prespore cell-specific proteins." Dev. Genet. 9: 383-402.
	
Dusenbery, D. B. (1988). "Avoided temperature leads to the surface: computer modeling of slime mold and nematode thermotaxis." Behav. Ecol. Sociobiol. 22: 219-223.
	
Duffy, K. T. I. and D. R. Waddell (1988). "Genetic characterization of cannibalism in Dictyostelium caveatum." Curr. Microbiol. 17: 203-208.
	
Drummond, A. S. and R. L. CHisholm (1988). "The effect of caffeine, adenosine, and buffer ionic composition on the induction of cell-surface cAMP binding during starvation of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Genet. 9: 293.
	
Driscoll, D. M., et al. (1988). "Characterization of two divergently transcribed Dictyostelium gene pairs and identification of G-rich sequence element lying between them with the characteristics of a basal promotor element." Dev. Genet. 9: 455-468.
	
Dingermann, T., et al. (1988). "Structural requirements for the synthesis of tRNAtrp from Dictyostelium discoideum in yeast." Biochimie 70: 711-719.
	
Dingermann, T., et al. (1988). A conserved 199-bp element which is frequently associated with transfer-RNA genes in Dictyostelium discoideum. Biol. Chem. H-S.
	
Dingermann, T., et al. (1988). "A family of non-allelic tRNAval(GUU) genes from the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Gene 73: 373-384.
	
Devreotes, P. N. and S. H. Zigmond (1988). "Chemotaxis in eukaryotic cells: A focus on leukocytes and Dictyostelium." Annu. Rev. Cell Biol. 4: 649-686.
	
Deering, R. A. (1988). Use of Dictyostelium discoideum to study DNA repair. DNA Repair: A Laboratory Manual of Research Procedures. E. C. Friedberg and P. C. Hanawalt. New York, Marcel Dekker: 39-76.
	
Deering, R. A. (1988). "DNA repair in Dictyostelium." Dev. Genet. 9: 483-494.
	
De Young, G., et al. (1988). "Pacemakers in aggregation fields of Dictyostelium discoideum: does a single cell suffice?" J. Math. Biol. 26: 487-517.
	
de Wit, R. J. W., et al. (1988). "Studies of cell-surface glorin receptors, glorin degradation, and glorin-induced cellular responses during development of Polysphondylium violaceum." Exp. Cell Res. 179: 332-343.
	
De Vries, M. J. (1988). Twee onderzoeken gerelateerd aan de inositolcyclus van Dictyostelium discoideum. Leiden, RUL: 1-31.
	
de Priester, W., et al. (1988). "Effects of microtubule-disrupting agents on chemotactic events in Dictyostelium discoideum." Eur. J. Cell Biol. 46: 94-97.
	
De Lozanne, A., et al. (1988). Molecular genetic approaches to myosin function. Signal transduction in cytoplasmic organization and cell motility (UCLA symp. mol. cell. biol. new series). P. Satir, E. Lazarides and J. S. Condeelis. New York, A.R. Liss: 279-286.
	
De Lozanne, A. (1988). Myosin structure and function: molecular genetic studies of Dictyostelium myosin. Stanford, CA, Stanford University: 204.
	
de Jong, C. C. (1988). A comparative study of the regulation of particulate guanylate cyclase in different species and tissues. Leiden, RUL: 1-22.
	
Davis, S. J., et al. (1988). "An immunological assessment of lysosomal enzymes and other macromolecules sulfated during vegetative growth of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell. Biochem. 38: 113-116.
	
Davis, S. J. (1988). "Oligosacchardide heterogeneity of glycoproteins sulfated during the vegetative growth of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell. Biochem. 38: 77-86.
	
Datta, S. and R. A. Firtel (1988). "An 80-bp cis-acting regulatory region controls cAMP and developmental regulation of a prestalk gene in Dictyostelium." Genes Devel. 2: 294-304.
	
Cox, E. C., et al. (1988). "Spatial patterns in the fruiting bodies of the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium pallidum." Differentiation 38: 73-81.
	
Coukell, M. B. and A. M. Cameron (1988). "Effects of suboptimal levels of extracellular calcium on the regulation of the cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase-inhibitor system and membrane differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 90: 691-700.
	
Cole, R. A. and K. L. Williams (1988). "Insertion of transformation vector DNA into different chromosomal sites of Dictyostelium discoideum as determined by pulse field electrophoresis." Nucl. Acids Res. 16: 4891-4903.
	
Clarke, M., et al. (1988). "Analysis of the prestarvation response in growing cells of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Genet. 9: 315-326.
	
Chisholm, R. L., et al. (1988). "Dictyostelium discoideum myosin: Isolation and characterization of cDNAs encoding the essential light chain." Mol. Cell. Biol. 8: 794-801.
	
Cavender, J. C., et al. (1988). "Kenneth Bryan Raper." Mycologia 80: 599-606.
	
Bronner, C. E., et al. (1988). "Genetic analysis of two mutations affecting thymidine metabolism in Dictyostelium discoideum." Genetics 120: 959-964.
	
Brock, T. D. (1988). Kenneth Raper: naturalist of the fungi. ASM News. 54: 296.
	
Brock, A. M. and J. D. Pardee (1988). "Cytoimmunofluorescent localization of severin in Dictyostelium amoebae." Dev. Biol. 128: 30-39.
	
Brisbin, J. N. R. and D. H. O'Day (1988). "Nuclear morphogenesis during spore germination in the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Trans. Am. Microsc. Soc. 107: 135-142.
	
Brickey, D. A. (1988). A study of the regulation of glycogen metabolism in Dictyostelium discoideum. Blacksburg, VA, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University: 111.
	
Breen, E. J. and K. L. Williams (1988). "Movement of the Dictyostelium discoideum slug: Models, musings, and images." Dev. Genet. 9: 539-548.
	
Bradley, M. C. (1988). The ribosomal genes and nucleoli of Dictyostelium discoideum: studies on the regulation of gene expression. Southampton, UK, University of Southampton: 341.
	
Boose, J. A., et al. (1988). "Defective intercellular cohesion in glycosylation mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Genet. 9: 569-578.
	
Bonner, J. T., et al. (1988). "The possible role of ammonia in phototaxis of migrating slugs of Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 85: 3885-3887.
	
Bonner, J. T. (1988). The evolution of complexity by means of natural selection. Princeton, NJ, Princeton Univ. Press.
	
Blumberg, D. D., et al. (1988). "A Ca++-dependent signal transduction system participates in coupling expression of some cAMP-dependent prespore genes to the cell surface receptor." Dev. Genet. 9: 359-370.
	
Bloom, L. and R. R. Kay (1988). "The search for morphogens in Dictyostelium." Bioessays 99: 187-191.
	
Bisson, R. and G. Schiavo (1988). "Slime mold cytochrome C oxidase. An example of environmental influence on subunit composition of a eukaryotic oxidase." Ann. NY Acad. Sci. 550: 325-336.
	
Bettler, B., et al. (1988). "The upstream limit of nuclease-sensitive chromatin in Dictyostelium rRNA genes neighbors a topoisomerase I-like cluster." J. Mol. Biol. 204: 549-559.
	
Bernstein, R. L., et al. (1988). "Detergent treatment of Dictyostelium discoideum cells allows examination of internal cell type-specific antigens by flow cytometry." Cytometry 9: 68-74.
	
Berlot, C. H., et al. (1988). Role of myosin phosphorylation in Dictyostelium chemotaxis. Signal transduction in cytoplasmic organization and cell motility (UCLA symp. mol. cell. biol. new series). P. Satir, E. Lazarides and J. S. Condeelis. New York, A.R. Liss: 287-292.
	
Berlot, C. H. (1988). Chemoattractant-elicited increases in myosin phosphorylation in Dictyostelium. Stanford, CA, Stanford University: 201.
	
Berks, M. and R. R. Kay (1988). "Cyclic AMP is an inhibitor of stalk cell differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 126: 108-114.
	
Berg, R. H., et al. (1988). "Enzyme-gold affinity labelling of cellulose." J. Electron Microsc. Techn. 8: 371-379.
	
Bennett, H. and J. Condeelis (1988). "Isolation of an immunoreactive analogue of brain fodrin that is associated with the cell cortex of Dictyostelium amoebae." Cell Motil. Cytoskelet. 11: 303-317.
	
Benjaminson, M. A. (1988). "Hypergravity alters developmental events in Dictyostelium discoideum." Am. Soc. Gravitational Space Biol. Bull. 1: 14.
	
Barondes, S. H. (1988). "Bifunctional properties of lectins: lectins redefined." TIBS 13: 480-483.
	
Barchilon, M. and L. A. Segel (1988). "Adaptation, oscillations and relay in a model for cAMP secretion in cellular slime molds." J. Theor. Biol. 133: 437-446.
	
Ashktorab, H. and D. L. Welker (1988). "Establishment of the nuclear location of Dictyostelium discoideum plasmids." Gene 65: 41-49.
	
Andres, V., et al. (1988). "Allosteric inhibition of Dictyostelium discoideum fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase by fructose 2,6-bisphosphate." FEBS Lett. 241: 51-54.
	
Andre, E., et al. (1988). "Severin, gelsolin, and villin share a homologous sequence in regions presumed to contain F-actin severing domains." J. Biol. Chem. 263: 722-727.
	
Alexander, S., et al. (1988). "Characterization of an antigenically related family of cell-type specific proteins implicated in slug migration in Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 38: 82-90.
	
Ahern, K. G., et al. (1988). "Identification of regions essential for extrachromosomal replication and maintenance of an endogenous plasmid in Dictyostelium." Nucl. Acids Res. 16: 6825-6837.
	
Aerts, R. J. (1988). "Changes in cytoplasmic pH are involved in the cell type regulation of Dictyostelium." Cell Differ. 23: 125-132.
	
Aeckerle, S., et al. (1988). Ca++ regulates cAMP induced potassium ion efflux in Dictyostelium discoideum. Biol. Chem. H-S.
	
Abe, T., et al. (1988). "Transient increase of the intracellular Ca2+ concentration during chemotactic signal transduction in Dictyostelium discoideum cells." Differentiation 39: 90-96.
	
Yumura, S. and T. Yumura (1987). Ultrastructure of myosin thick filaments in Dictyostelium amoebae. Cell Struct. Funct.
	
Yoshida, M. (1987). "Identification of carbohydrate moieties involved in EDTA-stable or EDTA-sensitive cell contact of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biochem. 101: 1233-1245.
	
Wurster, B. and R. Mohn (1987). "Spike-shaped oscillations in the absence of measurable changes in cyclic AMP concentration in a mutant of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 87: 723-730.
	
Wuestehube, L. J. and E. J. Luna (1987). "F-actin binds to the cytoplasmic surface of ponticulin, a 17-kD integral glycoprotein from Dictyostelium discoideum plasma membranes." J. Cell Biol. 105: 1741-1751.
	
Wright, B. E. and M. H. Butler (1987). The heredity-environment continuum: a systems analysis. Evolution of longevity in animals. A comparative approach. A. D. Woodhead and K. H. Thompson. New York, Plenum Press: 111-122.
	
Woychik, N. A. and R. L. Dimond (1987). "A single mutation prevents the normal intracellular transport of multiple lysosomal proteins from the rough endoplasmic reticulum." J. Biol. Chem. 262: 10008-10014.
	
Witke, W., et al. (1987). "Homologous recombination in the Dictyostelium alpha-actinin gene leads to an altered mRNA and lack of the protein." EMBO J. 6: 4143-4148.
	
Williams, J. G., et al. (1987). "Direct induction of Dictyostelium prestalk gene expression by DIF provides evidence that DIF is a morphogen." Cell 49: 185-192.
	
White, E. and E. R. Katz (1987). "Biochemical and genetic approaches to microtubule function in Dictyostelium discoideum." Meth. Cell Biol. 28: 245-259.
	
Welker, D. L. and K. L. Williams (1987). "Recessive lethal mutations and the maintenance of duplication bearing strains of Dictyostelium discoideum." Genetics 115: 101-106.
	
Weijer, C. J., et al. (1987). "Vital staining methods used in the analysis of cell sorting in Dictyostelium discoideum." Meth. Cell Biol. 28: 449-459.
	
Weeks, G. and T. Pawson (1987). "The synthesis and degradation of ras-related gene products during growth and differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 33: 207-213.
	
Weeks, G., et al. (1987). "A ras-encoded protein in Dictyostelium discoideum is acylated and membrane -associated." Mol. Microbiol. 1: 347-354.
	
Warrick, H. M. and J. A. Spudich (1987). "Myosin structure and function in cell motility." Annu. Rev. Cell Biol. 3: 379-421.
	
Warrick, H. M. (1987). "Codon frequency in Dictyostelium discoideum." Meth. Cell Biol. 28: 497-500.
	
Waddell, D. R., et al. (1987). "Cytokinesis is defective in Dictyostelium mutants with altered phagocytic recognition, adhesion, and vegetative cell cohesion properties." J. Cell Biol. 105: 2293-2300.
	
Vogel, G. (1987). "Endocytosis and recognition mechanisms in Dictyostelium discoideum." Meth. Cell Biol. 28: 129-137.
	
Vicker, M. G. and L. Rensing (1987). Oscillations and the regulation of spatial order in developing systems. Temporal disorder in human oscillatory systems. L. Rensing, U. an der Heiden and M. C. Mackey. Berlin, Springer-Verlag: 24-29.
	
Vaughan, R. A. and C. L. Rutherford (1987). "Distribution of cAMP-dependent protein kinase during development in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 121: 359-367.
	
Vaughan, R., et al. (1987). Surface receptor mediated activation and adaptation of adenylate cyclase in Dictyostelium discoideum. Molecular mechanisms of desensitization to signal molecules. (NATO ASI Series H, Cell Biology). T. M. Konijn, P. J. M. van Haastert, H. van der Starre, H. van der Wel and M. D. Houslay. Berlin, Springer-Verlag: 15-24.
	
Varnum-Finney, B. J., et al. (1987). "Frequency and orientation of pseudopod formation of Dictyostelium discoideum amebae chemotaxing in a spatial gradient: Further evidence for a temporal mechanism." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 8: 18-26.
	
Varnum-Finney, B., et al. (1987). "Amebae of Dictyostelium discoideum respond to an increasing temporal gradient of the chemoattractant cAMP with a reduced frequency of turning: Evidence for a temporal mechanism in ameboid chemotaxis." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 8: 7-17.
	
Varela, I., et al. (1987). "The developmental regulation of phosphatidylinositol kinase in Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 211: 64-68.
	
van Waarde, A. (1987). "What is the function of protein carboxyl methylation?" Compar. Biochem. Physiol. 86B: 423-438.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M., et al. (1987). "The regulation of adenylate cyclase by guanine nucleotides in Dictyostelium discoideum membranes." Eur. J. Biochem. 162: 251-258.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M., et al. (1987). "Aberrant transmembrane signal transduction in Dictyostelium cells expressing a mutated ras gene." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 84: 4905-4909.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M., et al. (1987). (rp)-cAMPS, an antogonist of cAMP in Dictyostelium discoideum. Biophosphates and their analogues - Synthesis, Structure, Metabolism and Activity. K. S. Bruzik and W. J. Stec. Amsterdam, Elsevier: 469-483.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M., et al. (1987). Adaptation of Dictyostelium discoideum cells to chemotactic signals. Molecular mechanisms of desensitization to signal molecules. (NATO ASI Series H, Cell Biology). T. M. Konijn, P. J. M. Van Haastert, H. Van der Starre, H. Van der Wel and M. D. Houslay. Berlin, Springer-Verlag: 25-42.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M. (1987). "Adenosine 3',5'-monophosphorothioate (Rp-isomer)induces down-regulation of surface cyclic AMP receptors without receptor activation in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem 262: 7705-7710.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M. (1987). "Alteration of receptor/G-protein interaction by putative endogenous protein kinase activity in Dictyostelium discoideum membranes." J. Biol. Chem. 262: 3239-3243.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M. (1987). "Down-regulation of cell surface cyclic AMP receptors and desensitization of cyclic AMP-stimulated adenylate cyclase by cyclic AMP in Dictyostelium discoideum.  Kinetics and concentration dependence." J. Biol. Chem. 262: 7700-7704.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M. (1987). "Kinetics and concentration dependency of cAMP-induced desensitization of a subpopulation of surface cAMP receptors in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochemistry 26: 7518-7523.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M. (1987). "Differential effects of temperature on cAMP-induced excitation, adaptation, and deadaptation of adenylate and guanylate cyclase in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Biol. 105: 2301-2306.
	
Valencia, A., et al. (1987). "Spectroscopic studies on the structural organization of the lectin discoidin I: homologies with fibronectin." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 911: 11-18.
	
Urushihara, H. and K. Yanagisawa (1987). Difference in ghost-cell interaction between opposite mating type cells in Dictyostelium discoideum. Devel. Growth Differ.
	
Urushihara, H. and K. Yanagisawa (1987). "Fusion of cell ghosts with intact cells in Dictyostelium discoideum: Differential response of opposite mating-type cells." Differentiation 35: 176-180.
	
Urushihara, H. and K. Yanagisawa (1987). "Fusion of cell ghosts with sexually opposite type cells in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 120: 556-560.
	
Urushihara, H., et al. (1987). Molecular mechanism of sexual cell fusion in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. Cell Struct. Funct.
	
Uchiyama, S. (1987). "Repression of rRNA synthesis during slug reconstruction in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Cell Biol. 65: 693-697.
	
Uchiyama, S. (1987). "Cyclic AMP fails to suppress disaggregation-induced repression of rRNA synthesis in Dictyostelium discoideum." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 40: 99-101.
	
Tsang, A. S., et al. (1987). "Expression of an altered cAMP binding protein by rapid-developing strains of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 120: 294-298.
	
Town, C. D., et al. (1987). "Relationships between extracellular pH, intracellular pH, and gene expression in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 122: 354-362.
	
Toda, K., et al. (1987). "Mutants of Polysphondylium pallidum showing delayed modifications of glycoproteins are altered in a regulatory signal for development." J. Cell Sci. 87: 121-132.
	
Tillinghast, H. S. and P. C. Newell (1987). "Chemotaxis towards pteridines during development of Dictyostelium." J. Cell Sci. 87: 45-53.
	
Thiery, R., et al. (1987). "Increase of DPH fluorescence polarization during development of Dictyostelium discoideum cells." FEBS Lett. 223: 381-386.
	
Teramoto, E. (1987). "An equilibrium theory of cell distribution in Dictyostelium discoideum." Lect. Notes Biomath. 71: 217-223.
	
Tamada, A., et al. (1987). Uptake of N-acetyl-beta D hexosaminidase from Dictyostelium discoideum into rat hepatocytes via mannose-6-phosphate specific receptor. J. Pharm. Sci.
	
Sussman, M. (1987). "Cultivation and synchronous morphogenesis of Dictyostelium under controlled experimental conditions." Meth. Cell Biol. 28: 9-29.
	
Stone, D. B., et al. (1987). "Preparation of deuterated actin from Dictyostelium discoideum." Meth. Cell Biol. 28: 215-229.
	
Stephenson, S. and J. Landolt (1987). "Cellular slime molds in soils of southern Appalachian spruce-fir forests." Castanea 52: 180-185.
	
Steel, L. F., et al. (1987). "Nucleotide sequence and characterization of the transcript of a Dictyostelium ribosomal protein gene." Nucl. Acids Res. 15: 10285-10298.
	
Steel, L. F. and A. Jacobson (1987). "Translational control of ribosomal protein synthesis during early Dictyostelium discoideum development." Mol. Cell. Biol. 7: 965-972.
	
Spudich, J. A. (1987). Dictyostelium discoideum: molecular approaches to cell biology. Orlando, Ac. Press.
	
Spudich, J. A. (1987). Introductory remarks and some biochemical considerations. Dictyostelium discoideum : molecular approaches to cell biology (Series: Meth. Cell Biol.). J. A. Spudich. Orlando, FL, Ac. Press. 28: 3-8.
	
Spudich, A. (1987). "Isolation of the actin cytoskeleton from amoeboid cells of Dictyostelium." Meth. Cell Biol. 28: 209-214.
	
Springer, W., et al. (1987). Characterization of a cell-adhesion molecule of Dictyostelium purpureum. Fed. Proc.
	
Soll, D. R., et al. (1987). "Characterization of a timing mutant of Dictyostelium discoideum which exhibits "high frequency switching"." Dev. Biol. 120: 25-37.
	
Soll, D. R. and R. Finney (1987). Regulation of timing during the foward program of development and the reverse program of dedifferentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum. Genetic regulation of development (45th symp. soc. dev. biol.). W. F. Loomis. New York, A.R. Liss: 287-325.
	
Soll, D. R. (1987). "Methods for manipulating and investigating developmental timing in Dictyostelium discoideum." Meth. Cell Biol. 28: 413-431.
	
Sogin, M. L. and J. H. Gunderson (1987). "Structural diversity of eukaryotic small subunit ribosomal RNAs." Ann. NY Acad. Sci. 503: 125-139.
	
Sobolewski, A. (1987). The role of cyclic-AMP and differentiation-inducing factor in stalk cell differentiation during the development of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. Vancouver, BC (Canada), The University of British Columbia.
	
Small, N. V., et al. (1987). "Adaptation to chemotactic cyclic AMP signals in Dictyostelium involves the G-protein." J. Cell Biol. 88: 537-545.
	
Siu, C.-H., et al. (1987). "The contact site a glycoprotein mediates cell-cell adhesion by homophilic binding in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Biol. 105: 2523-2533.
	
Singleton, C. K., et al. (1987). "Characterization of genes which are deactivated upon the onset of development in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 119: 433-441.
	
Singleton, C. K. (1987). " Dictyostelium discoideum." Nucl. Acids Res. 15: 9610.
	
Singleton, C. and S. Manning (1987). Cyloheximide induction of gene expression during early development of Dictyostelium. Fed. Proc.
	
Simon, J., et al. (1987). The dynamic interaction of Dictyostelium discoideum alpha-actinin with F-actin. Biophys. J.
	
Simmonds, A. C., et al. (1987). Cytoskeleton-attached membrane protein of Dictyostelium discoideum is absent from phagocytosis mutant. Biochem. Soc. Trans.
	
Shiozawa, J. A., et al. (1987). "Topography of the Dictyostelium discoideum plasma membrane: Analysis of membrane asymmetry and intermolecular disulfide bonds." Biochemistry 26: 4884-4892.
	
Sekimura, T., et al. (1987). A continuous model of pattern formation in Dictyostelium discoideum. Devel. Growth Differ.
	
Segel, L. A. (1987). "Toward molecular sensory physiology: mathematical models." Lect. Notes Biomath. 71: 313-321.
	
Segall, J. E., et al. (1987). "Selection of chemotaxis mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Biol. 104: 151-161.
	
Schaller, K. L., et al. (1987). Isolation of a clone for the regulatory subunit of the cyclic cAMP-dependent protein kinase of D. discoideum. Molecular approaches to developmental biology. R. A. Firtel and E. H. Davidson. New York, A.R. Liss: 351-360.
	
Schaap, P. (1987). Regulation of size and pattern in the cellular slime molds. Leiden, Netherlands, RU Leiden.
	
Sameshima, M., et al. (1987). Nonrandom location of nucleolus in migrating Dictyostelium discoideum. Cell Struct. Funct.
	
Salzburger, W., et al. (1987). RNA-polymerases from Dictyostelium discoideum. Biol. Chem. H-S.
	
Sadeghi-Jorabchi, H. (1987). Developmental regulation and biochemistry of 117 antigen, a cell cohesion molecule in Dictyostelium discoideum. St. Louis, MO, Saint Louis University: 109.
	
Sadeghi, H., et al. (1987). "Characterization of antigen 117, a developmentally regulated cell surface glycoprotein of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 262: 16294-16299.
	
Rubino, S. and J. V. Small (1987). "The cytoskeleton of spreading Dictyostelium amoebae." Protoplasma 136: 63-69.
	
Rubenstein, P. A., et al. (1987). "Amino-terminal processing of Dictyostelium discoideum actin." Meth. Cell Biol. 28: 231-243.
	
Rossomando, E. F., et al. (1987). "HLAMP - a conjugate of hippuryllysine and AMP which contains a phosphoamide bond - stimulates chemotaxis in Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 35: 88-93.
	
Roos, U. P., et al. (1987). "Movements of intracellular particles in undifferentiated amebae of Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 7: 258-271.
	
Roos, U. P. (1987). "Probing the mechanisms of mitosis with Dictyostelium discoideum." Meth. Cell Biol. 28: 261-279.
	
Rivera, J. and D. H. O'Day (1987). "Chloroquine inhibits cell fusion during sexual development in Dictyostelium discoideum." Can. J. Microbiol. 33: 1125-1129.
	
Richards, A. J. (1987). Regulation of cell type specific gene expression during development of Dictyostelium discoideum. Leeds, UK, University of Leeds: 109.
	
Reymond, C. D. and G. Othenin-Girard (1987). Function of the Ras gene in Dictyostelium and its introduction in mammalian cells. Experientia.
	
Reymond, C. D. (1987). "A rapid method for the preparation of multiple samples of eucaryotic DNA." Nucl. Acids Res. 15: 8118.
	
Ray, J. and R. A. Lerner (1987). Cellular interaction in the morphogenesis of Dictyostelium discoideum. Invertebrate models: cell receptors and cell communication. A. H. Greenberg. Basel, S. Karger AG: 118-142.
	
Ragheb, J. A. and R. P. Dottin (1987). "Structure and sequence of a UDP-glucose pyrophosphorylase gene of Dictyostelium discoideum." Nucl. Acids Res. 15: 3891-3907.
	
Ragheb, J. A. (1987). The structure and sequence of a uridine diphosphoglucose pyrophosphorylase gene of Dictyostelium discoideum: implications for the developmental regulation of the gene. Baltimore, MD, The Johns Hopkins University: 189.
	
Podgorski, G. J., et al. (1987). Regulation of the cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase of Dictyostelium discoideum. Molecular Approaches to Developmental Biology. R. A. Firtel and E. H. Davidson. New York, A.R. Liss: 361-371.
	
Pears, C. J. and J. G. Williams (1987). "Identification of a DNA sequence element required for efficient expression of a developmentally regulated and cAMP-inducible gene of Dictyostelium discoideum." EMBO J. 6: 195-200.
	
Pears, C. J. (1987). Cysteine proteinase II: structure and expression of a developmentally regulated gene of Dictyostelium discoideum. London, UK, University of London.
	
Patton, W. F. (1987). Two-dimensional electrophoretic analysis of the plasma membrane of Dictyostelium discoideum during concanavalin A induced receptor redistribution. Amherst, MA, University of Massachusetts: 245.
	
Owens, N. F., et al. (1987). "Inhibition of cell adhesion by a synthetic polymer adsorbed to glass shown under defined hydrodynamic stress." J. Cell Sci. 87: 667-675.
	
Othmer, H. G. and E. F. Pate (1987). "A model for pattern formation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Lect. Notes Biomath. 71: 224-233.
	
Orii, H., et al. (1987). "A new type of plasmid from a wild isolate of Dictyostelium species: the existence of closely situated long inverted repeats." Nucl. Acids Res. 15: 1097-1107.
	
Oohata, A. (1987). "The histochemical localisation of prestalk-cell-specific acid phosphatase in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Liberal Arts Dept., Kansai Medical University 62: 13-19.
	
Okaichi, K., et al. (1987). Does Dictyostelium discoideum have the ability of photoreactivation. J. Radiat. Res.
	
Okaichi, K. (1987). "RNA synthesis during germination of UV-irradiated Dictyostelium discoideum spores." J. Radiat. Res. 28: 172-185.
	
Ohno, S. (1987). "The ancestor of the adaptive immune system was the CAM system for organogenesis." Exp. Clin. Immunogenet. 4: 181-192.
	
Ohnishi, T., et al. (1987). "Depression of cell differentiation and morphogenesis of Dictyostelium discoideum following exposure to furylfuramide mitomycin C, or methylmethanesulfonate." Jap. J. Genet. 62: 265-269.
	
Ohmori, R. and Y. Maeda (1987). "The developmental fate of Dictyostelium discoideum cells depends greatly on the cell-cycle position at the onset of starvation." Cell Differ. 22: 11-18.
	
O'Day, D. H. and J. Rivera (1987). "Lectin binding and inhibition studies reveal the importance of D-glucose, D-mannose and N-acetylglucosamine during early sexual development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Differ. 20: 231-237.
	
O'Day, D. H., et al. (1987). "Gamete formation reflectss the sexual pheromone hierarchy of Dictyostelium giganteum." Experientia 43: 619-621.
	
O'Day, D. H., et al. (1987). "Appearance and developmental kinetics of a unique cell type in Dictyostelium discoideum: Is it the gamete of sexual development?" J. Exp. Zoool. 242: 153-159.
	
Nuske, J. H. (1987). "Protein methylase II in five taxa from three phyla." Comp. Biochem. Physiol. 86b: 37-47.
	
Ntamere, A. S. and S. L. Barclay (1987). "Protein synthesis in cell-free extracts of Dictyostelium discoideum." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 41: 29-33.
	
North, M. (1987). Cysteine proteinases of Dictyostelium discoideum - changes induced by a factor derived from bacteria. Biochem. Soc. Trans.
	
Noegel, A., et al. (1987). "Calcium-sensitive non-muscle alpha-actinin containing EF-hand structures and highly conserved regions." FEBS Lett. 221: 391-396.
	
Noce, T., et al. (1987). Translocation of cAMP receptors during development of Dictyostelium discoideum. Devel. Growth Differ.
	
Newth, C. K., et al. (1987). "Founder cell differentiation and acrasin production in an aggregateless mutant of Polysphondylium violaceum." Devel. Growth Differ. 29: 479-488.
	
Newell, P. C., et al. (1987). "Signal transduction during amoebal chemotaxis of Dictyostelium discoideum." Microbiol. Sci. 4: 5-11.
	
Nerke, K., et al. (1987). Evidence for developmental regulation of tRNA gene-transcription in Dictyostelium discoideum. Biol. Chem. H-S.
	
Nellen, W., et al. (1987). Regulatory elements in the Dictyostelium actin-6 gene promoter - a transcription stimulator sequence also functions as a terminator. Biol. Chem. H-S.
	
Nellen, W., et al. (1987). "Molecular biology in Dictyostelium: tools and applications." Meth. Cell Biol. 28: 67-100.
	
Naranan, V. (1987). The relationship between the two forms of glycogen phosphorylase in Dictyostelium discoideum. Blacksburg, VA, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University: 123.
	
Naraman, V., et al. (1987). Relationship between the two forms of glycogen phosphorylase in Dictyostelium discoideum. Fed. Proc.
	
Mutzel, R., et al. (1987). "Cloning and cDNA sequence of the regulatory subunit of cAMP-dependent protein kinase from Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 84: 6-10.
	
Morris, H. R., et al. (1987). "Chemical structure of the morphogen differentiation inducing factor from Dictyostelium discoideum." Nature 328: 811-814.
	
Moriyama, R. and K. Yanagisawa (1987). "Protein synthesis initiated by cell fusion in Dictyostelium discoideum." Devel. Growth Differ. 30: 169-181.
	
Moore, B. R., et al. (1987). "A developmentally controlled change in the post-translational modification on the lysosomal alpha-mannosidase of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. J. 243: 739-746.
	
McPherson, C., et al. (1987). Gene deactivation during early development of Dictyostelium discoideum. Fed. Proc.
	
McNamara, G. T. (1987). Morphogenetic movements contributing to cell aggregation in Dictyostelium discoideum wild-type and streamer F mutants. Urbana, IL, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign: 116.
	
McNally, J. G., et al. (1987). "Branching in Polysphondylium whorls: Two-dimensional patterning in a three-dimensional system." Dev. Biol. 119: 302-304.
	
McConachie, D. R. and D. H. O'Day (1987). "Pronuclear migration, swelling, and fusion during sexual development in Dictyostelium discoideum." Can. J. Microbiol. 33: 1046-1049.
	
Matsunaga, T. and N. Mori (1987). "The origin of the immune system. The possibility that immunoglobulin superfamily molecules and cell adhesion molecules of chicken and slime mould are all related." Scand. J. Immunol. 25: 485-495.
	
Marx, J. L. (1987). "Switching" in yeast and slime molds. (Research News). Science. 236: 30.
	
Martin, J.-B., et al. (1987). "Identification of inositol hexaphosphate in 31P-NMR spectra of Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae. Relevance to intracellular pH determination." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 931: 16-25.
	
Martin, J., et al. (1987). "Na-23 NMR study of intracellular sodium ions in Dictyostelium discoideum ameba." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 254: 559-567.
	
Martiel, J. L. and A. Goldbeter (1987). "Origin of bursting and birhythmicity in a model for cyclic AMP oscillations in Dictyostelium cells." Lect. Notes Biomath. 71: 244-255.
	
Martiel, J.-L. and A. Goldbeter (1987). "A model based on receptor desensitization for cyclic AMP signaling in Dictyostelium cells." Biophys. J. 52: 807-828.
	
Manrow, R. E. and A. Jacobson (1987). "Increased rates of decay and reduced levels of accumulation of the major poly(A)-associated proteins of Dictyostelium during heat shock and development." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 84: 1858-1862.
	
Mann, S. K. O. and R. A. Firtel (1987). "Cyclic AMP regulation of early gene expression in Dictyostelium discoideum: Mediation via the cell surface cyclic AMP receptor." Mol. Cell. Biol. 7: 458-469.
	
Mann, S. K. O., et al. (1987). Cyclic AMP regulation of gene expression during Dictyostelium development. Molecular approaches to developmental biology. R. A. Firtel and E. H. Davidson. New York, A.R. Liss: 303-328.
	
Maniak, M. and W. Nellen (1987). Two mRNAs of a membrane protein gene in Dictyostelium are differentially regulated during stress and formation of contacts. Biol. Chem. H-S.
	
MacDonald, J. I. S. (1987). ATPases in plasma membrane enriched fractions from Dictyostelium discoideum. Vancouver, BC (Canada), The University of British Columbia.
	
Loomis, W. F., et al. (1987). Adhesion mechanisms and multicellular control of cell-type divergence of Dictyostelium discoideum. Molecular Approaches to Developmental Biology. R. A. Firtel and E. H. Davidson. New York, A.R. Liss: 339-349.
	
Loomis, W. F. and M. E. Gilpin (1987). "Neutral mutations and repetitive DNA." Biosci. Reports 7: 599-606.
	
Loomis, W. F. (1987). "Genetic tools for Dictyostelium discoideum." Meth. Cell Biol. 28: 31-65.
	
Loomis, W. F. (1987). Cell-type regulation in Dictyostelium discoideum. Genetic regulation of development (45th symp. soc. dev. biol.). W. F. Loomis. New York, A.R. Liss: 201-218.
	
Livi, G. P., et al. (1987). "A late developmental change in lysosomal enzyme sulfation specific to newly synthesized proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 121: 293-300.
	
Liu, P. (1987). Mutagenic and toxic effects of UV light, caffeine, theophylline, and theobromine on the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum. Kirksville, MO, Northeast Missouri State University: 68.
	
Leitner, A. (1987). Acrasiales in geschadigten Waldern. Konstanz, Switzerland, Universitat Konstanz.
	
Lacombe, M. L., et al. (1987). "Gene isolation by direct in situ cAMP binding." Gene 58: 29-36.
	
Kumagai, A., et al. (1987). "Prespore and prestalk differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum as examined by changes of wheat germ agglutinin binding proteins." Biochem. Cell Biol. 65: 68-75.
	
Kuczmarski, E. R., et al. (1987). "Effect of heavy chain phosphorylation on the polymerization and structure of Dictyostelium myosin filaments." J. Cell Biol. 105: 2989-2997.
	
Koury, S. T. (1987). Identification of intermediate filament-like elements in the cytoskeleton of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. Buffalo, NY, State University of New York (SUNY) at Buffalo: 146.
	
Konijn, T. M. and P. J. M. van Haastert (1987). "Measurement of chemotaxis in Dictyostelium." Meth. Cell Biol. 28: 283-298.
	
Kohnken, R. E. and E. A. Berger (1987). "Affinity labeling of the carbohydrate binding site of the lectin discoidin I using a photoactivatable radioiodinated monosaccharide." Biochemistry 26: 8727-8735.
	
Kohnken, R. E. and E. A. Berger (1987). "Assay and characterization of carbohydrate binding by the lectin discoidin I immobilized on nitrocellulose." Biochemistry 26: 3949-3957.
	
Kobuchi, Y. (1987). "A density dependent model for prestalk/prespore pattern formation in Dictyostelium discoideum. I. Basic mathematical framework." Lect. Notes Biomath. 71: 234-243.
	
Knecht, D. A. and W. F. Loomis (1987). "Antisense RNA inactivation of myosin heavy chain gene expression in Dictyostelium discoideum." Science 236: 1081-1085.
	
Knecht, D. A., et al. (1987). "Surface glycoprotein, gp24, involved in early adhesion of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol 121: 277-283.
	
Klein, P., et al. (1987). "The surface cAMP receptor in Dictyostelium - Levels of ligand-induced phosphorylation, solubilization, identification of primary transcript, and developmental regulation of expression." J. Biol. Chem. 262: 358-364.
	
Klein, P., et al. (1987). "Purification of the surface cAMP receptor in Dictyostelium." J. Biol. Chem. 262: 352-357.
	
Klein, C., et al. (1987). Characterization of the chemotactic receptor of Dictyostelium discoideum. Membrane Proteins. S. Goheen. Richmond, CA, Bio-Rad: 493-506.
	
Kitanishi-Yumura, T. and Y. Fukui (1987). "Reorganization of microtubules during mitosis in Dictyostelium: Dissociation from MTOC and selective assembly/disassembly in situ." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 8: 106-117.
	
Kimmel, A. R., et al. (1987). Different signal transduction mechanisms regulate cAMP receptor mediated changes in gene expression during Dictyostelium development. Molecular approaches to developmental biology. R. A. Firtel and E. H. Davidson. New York, A.R. Liss: 329-338.
	
Kimmel, A. R. (1987). "Different molecular mechanisms for cAMP regulation of gene expression during Dictyostelium development." Dev. Biol. 122: 163-171.
	
Khachatrian, L., et al. (1987). "Regulation of Dictyostelium discoideum adenylate cyclase by manganese and adenosine analogs." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 927: 235-246.
	
Khachatrian, L., et al. (1987). "Pertussis and cholera toxin ADP-ribosylation in Dictyostelium discoideum membranes." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 149: 975-981.
	
Khachatrian, L., et al. (1987). The activation of Dictyostelium discoideum adenylate cyclase by (NH4)2SO4. Fed. Proc.
	
Khachatrian, L., et al. (1987). "Ammonium sulfate modifies adenylate cyclase and the chemotactic receptor of Dictyostelium discoideum. Evidence for a G protein effect." J. Biol. Chem. 262: 8071-8076.
	
Kelly, R., et al. (1987). "Role of protein synthesis in decay and accumulation of mRNA during spore germination in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cell. Biol. 7: 799-805.
	
Kay, R. R. (1987). "Cell differentiation in monolayers and the investigation of slime mold morphogens." Meth. Cell Biol. 28: 433-448.
	
Kay, R. (1987). "Gene targeting in Dictyostelium: what do cells need myosin for?" Trends Genet. (TIG) 3: 174-175.
	
Kay, C. A., et al. (1987). "Translocation of an unusual cAMP receptor to the nucleus during development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci USA 84: 2322-2326.
	
Judelson, H. S., et al. (1987). "Characterization and distribution of multiple antigens on N-linked oligosaccharides of Dictyostelium discoideum proteins." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 253: 305-314.
	
Judelson, H. S., et al. (1987). "A locus regulating N-acetylglucosaminidase synthesis during development in Dictyostelium." Dev. Biol. 120: 170-176.
	
Jermyn, K. A., et al. (1987). "Two distinct classes of prestalk-enriched mRNA sequences in Dictyostelium discoideum." Development 100: 745-755.
	
Janssens, P. M. W. and P. J. M. van Haastert (1987). "Molecular basis of transmembrane signal transduction in Dictyostelium discoideum." Microbiol. Rev. 51: 396-418.
	
Janssens, P. M. W., et al. (1987). "Cell fractionation, detergent sensitivity and solubilization of Dictyostelium adenylate cyclase and guanylate cyclase." Mol. Cell. Biol. 76: 55-65.
	
Janssens, P. M. W. (1987). The molecular basis of transmembrane signal transduction in Dictyostelium discoideum. Leiden, Rul: 160.
	
Janssens, P. M. W. (1987). "Did vertebrate signal transduction mechanisms originate in eukaryotic microbes?" TIBS 12: 456-459.
	
Inouye, K. (1987). Mechanism of proportion regulation in migrating slugs of Dictyostelium discoideum. Devel. Growth Differ.
	
Ingalls, H. M. and E. J. Luna (1987). Antibodies directed against synthetic peptides identify a membrane attachment domain of gp80 in Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Hosokawa, T., et al. (1987). "Organization of community behavior during initiation of morphogenetic aggregation in a population of Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae." Cell Struct. Funct. 12: 497-502.
	
Hoja, U., et al. (1987). Queuosine modification in transfer RNAs and respiration: transformation of Dictyostelium discoideum with the cloned cyt-b2 gene from yeast. Biol. Chem. H-S.
	
Hohmann, H.-P., et al. (1987). "Two-step glycosylation of the contact site A protein of Dictyostelium discoideum and transport of an incompletely glycosylated form to the cell surface." J. Biol. Chem. 262: 16618-16624.
	
Hohmann, H.-P., et al. (1987). "Post-translational glycosylation of the contact site A protein of Dictyostelium discoideum is important for stability but not for its function in cell adhesion." EMBO J. 6: 3663-3671.
	
Hock, R. S. and J. S. Condeelis (1987). "Isolation of a 240-kilodalton actin binding protein from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 262: 394-400.
	
Hildebrandt, M., et al. (1987). Expression of prokaryotic and eukaryotic genes in Dictyostelium discoideum. Biol. Chem. H-S.
	
Haribabu, B., et al. (1987). A transmembrane signal transduction model for cAMP mediated gene regulation in Dictyostelium discoideum. Molecular approaches to developmental biology. R. A. Firtel and E. H. Davidson. New York, A.R. Liss: 385-399.
	
Hanson, N. D. and A. T. Weber (1987). "Membrane protein variation in Dictyostelium mucoroides during sorocarp and macrocyst development." Exp. Mycol. 11: 354-359.
	
Hader, D. P. and M. Tevini (1987). Ch. 12: Light-dependent movement responses. General Photobiology. D. P. Hader and M. Tevini. Elmsford, NY, Pergamon Press: 247-278.
	
Gupta, J., et al. (1987). "Evidence for nonregulatory trehalase activity in Dictyostelium discoideum." Curr. Microbiol. 16: 101-104.
	
Gupta, J. (1987). Purification, characterization and secretion of the lysosomal trehalases of Dictyostelium discoideum. Windsor, ON (Canada), University of Windsor.
	
Guhl, B. and U. Roos (1987). Mitosis in the cellular slime mold Acytostelium leptosomum. Experientia.
	
Griffith, L. M., et al. (1987). "Myosin light chain kinase and myosin light chain phosphatase from Dictyostelium: effects of reversible phosphorylation on myosin structure and function." J. Cell Biol. 104: 1309-1323.
	
Gregoli, P., et al. (1987). Gene activation during early development of Dictyostelium discoideum. Fed. Proc.
	
Graetzer, R. (1987). "Oxygen effect in survival of Dictyostelium discoideum treated with near ultraviolet radiation." Photochem. Photobiol. 45: 425-427.
	
Goodloe-Holland, C. M. and E. J. Luna (1987). "Purification and characterization of Dictyostelium discoideum plasma membranes." Meth. Cell Biol. 28: 103-128.
	
Gomer, R. H. and R. A. Firtel (1987). Tissue morphogenesis in Dictyostelium discoideum. Molecular approaches to developmental biology. R. A. Firtel and E. H. Davidson. New York, A.R. Liss: 373-383.
	
Gomer, R. H. and R. A. Firtel (1987). "Cell-autonomous determination of cell-type choice in Dictyostelium development by cell-cycle phase." Science 237: 758-762.
	
Gomer, R. H. (1987). "A strategy to study development and pattern formation: use of antibodies against products of cloned genes." Meth. Cell Biol. 28: 471-487.
	
Golumbeski, G. S. and R. L. Dimond (1987). "Developmentally regulated expression of temporally distinct beta-glucosidase isozymes in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 123: 494-499.
	
Goldbeter, A. and J. L. Martiel (1987). Periodic behaviour and chaos in the mechanism of intercellular communication governing aggregation of Dictyostelium amoebae. Chaos in Biological Systems (NATO ASI Series A - Life Sciences). H. Degn, A. V. Holden and L. F. Olsen. New York, Plenum Press: 79-89.
	
Goldbeter, A. (1987). Periodic signaling and receptor desensitization: from cAMP oscillations in Dictyostelium cells to pulsatile patterns of hormone secretion. Temporal disorder in human oscillatory systems. L. Rensing, U. an der Heiden and M. C. Mackey. Berlin, Springer-Verlag: 15-23.
	
Goldbeter, A. (1987). Adaptation, periodic signaling and receptor modification. Molecular Mechanisms of Desensitization and Adaptation to Signal Molecules (NATO ASI series H, Cell Biology). T. M. Konijn, P. J. M. van Haastert, H. van der Starre, H. van der Wel and M. D. Houslay. Berlin, Springer-Verlag: 43-62.
	
Giorda, R. and H. L. Ennis (1987). "Structure of two developmentally regulated Dictyostelium discoideum ubiquitin genes." Mol. Cell. Biol. 6: 2097-2103.
	
Gerisch, G., et al. (1987). Signal transduction and chemotaxis in Dictyostelium discoideum. Biol. Chem. H-S.
	
Gerisch, G. (1987). "Cyclic AMP and other signals controlling cell development and differentiation in Dictyostelium." Annu. Rev. Biochem. 56: 853-879.
	
Garside, K. and N. MacLean (1987). "The histones of Dictyostelium discoideum." Experientia 43: 147-151.
	
Fukui, Y., et al. (1987). "Agar-overlay immunofluorescence: high-resolution studies of cytoskeletal components and their changes during chemotaxis." Meth. Cell Biol. 28: 347-356.
	
Franke, J., et al. (1987). "The expression of two transcripts of the phosphodiesterase gene during the development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 124: 504-511.
	
Flotow, H. and F. Wheldrake (1987). "Cytosolic cAMP-dependent protein kinase of Polysphondylium violaceum: developmental regulation and properties." Mol. Cell. Biochem. 78: 141-150.
	
Finney, R., et al. (1987). "Gene regulation during dedifferentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 120: 561-576.
	
Finn, D. J. (1987). Proteinase 1 of Dictyostelium discoideum: studies of its secretion, antigenic structure, and endogenous inhibitor. Missoula, MT, University of Montana: 98.
	
Filosa, M. F. (1987). "Induction of fruiting bodies in a macrocyst-forming mutant of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium mucoroides." Differentiation 33: 185-192.
	
Fighetti, M. A., et al. (1987). "Cybrids and heterokaryons PEG-induced between D. discoideum amoebae and mouse fibroblasts." Microbiologica 10: 9-18.
	
Fernandez-Pinilla, R. and A. Pestana (1987). "Role of polyamines in proliferation and differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum as ascertained by difluoro methylornithine treatment." Rev. Espan. Fisiol. 43: 439-444.
	
Feit, I. N. and R. B. Sollitto (1987). "Ammonia is the gas used for the spacing of fruiting bodies in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 33: 193-196.
	
Feest, A. (1987). "The quantitative ecology of soil mycetozoa." Prog. Protistol. 2: 331-361.
	
Fechheimer, M. and D. L. Taylor (1987). "Introduction of exogenous molecules into the cytoplasm of Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae by controlled sonication." Meth. Cell Biol. 28: 179-190.
	
Fechheimer, M. (1987). "The Dictyostelium discoideum 30,000-dalton protein is an actin filament-bundling protein that is selectively present in filopodia." J. Cell Biol. 104: 1539-1551.
	
Europe-Finner, G. N. and P. C. Newell (1987). "GTP analogues stimulate inositol trisphosphate formation transiently in Dictyostelium." J. Cell Sci. 87: 513-518.
	
Europe-Finner, G. N. and P. C. Newell (1987). "Cyclic AMP stimulates accumulation of inositol trisphosphate in Dictyostelium." J. Cell Sci. 87: 221-229.
	
Erster, S. H. (1987). Isolation and characterization of an alpha-tubulin gene from Dictyostelium discoideum. Stony Brook, NY, State University of New York (SUNY) at Stony Brook: 201.
	
Early, A. E. and J. G. Williams (1987). "Two vectors which facilitate gene manipulation and a simplified transformation procedure for Dictyostelium discoideum." Gene 59: 99-106.
	
Driscoll, D. M. and J. G. Williams (1987). "Two divergently transcribed genes of Dictyostelium discoideum are cyclic AMP-inducible and coregulated during development." Mol. Cell. Biol. 7: 4482-4489.
	
Dottin, R. P., et al. (1987). "Activity gels: reformation of functional proteins in SDS-polyacrylamide gels." Genetic Engin. 9: 121-133.
	
Dingermann, T., et al. (1987). "Chromosomal mapping of tRNA genes from Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Gen. Genet. 207: 176-187.
	
Devreotes, P., et al. (1987). "Transmembrane signaling in Dictyostelium." Meth. Cell Biol. 28: 299-331.
	
de Wit, R. J. W., et al. (1987). "Differential effects of stimulus termination on excitation and desensitization of folic acid receptors and guanylate cyclase in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 930: 1-9.
	
de Wit, R. J. W. (1987). Transmembrane signals in Dictyostelium. Leiden, Rul: 193.
	
De Lozanne, A. and J. A. Spudich (1987). "Disruption of the Dictyostelium myosin heavy chain gene by homologous recombination." Science 236: 1086-1091.
	
De Lozanne, A., et al. (1987). "Expression in Escherichia coli of a functional Dictyostelium myosin tail fragment." J. Cell Biol. 105: 2999-3005.
	
De Lozanne, A. (1987). "Homologous recombination in Dictyostelium as a tool for the study of developmental genes." Meth. Cell Biol. 28: 489-495.
	
Datta, S., et al. (1987). cAMP-regulated gene expression during Dictyostelium development is mediated by the cell-surface cAMP receptor. Genetic regulation of development (45th symp. soc. dev. biol.). W. F. Loomis. New York, A.R. Liss: 33-61.
	
Datta, S. and R. A. Firtel (1987). "Identification of the sequences controlling cyclic AMP regulation and cell-type-specific expression of a prestalk-specific gene in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cell. Biol. 7: 149-159.
	
Datta, S. (1987). The regulation of prestalk-specific gene expression in Dictyostelium discoideum. La Jolla, CA, University of California, San Diego (UCSD): 163.
	
Crandall, I. E. (1987). Formation of proteins and glycoproteins during aggregation and development of Dictyostelium. Oxford, UK, University of Oxford: 225.
	
Couso, R., et al. (1987). "The high mannose oligosaccharides of Dictyostelium discoideum glycoproteins contain a novel intersecting N-acetylglucosamine residue." J. Biol. Chem. 262: 4521-4527.
	
Coukell, M. B. and A. M. Cameron (1987). "Effects of calcium antagonists on cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase induction in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 88: 379-388.
	
Cote, G. P. and S. M. McCrea (1987). "Selective removal of the carboxyl-terminal tail end of the Dictyostelium myosin II heavy chain by chymotrypsin." J. Biol. Chem. 262: 13033-13038.
	
Cote, G. P. and U. Bukiejko (1987). "Purification and characterization of a myosin heavy chain kinase from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 262: 1065-1072.
	
Condeelis, J., et al. (1987). "Ultrastructural localization of cytoskeletal proteins in Dictyostelium amoebae." Meth. in Cell Biol. 28: 191-207.
	
Collodi, P. (1987). A study of the developmentally regulated cell cohesion systems of Dictyostelium discoideum. Pittsburgh, PA, University of Pittsburgh: 137.
	
Cloutier, M. J. and C. L. Rutherford (1987). "Glycogen phosphorylase in Dictyostelium. Developmental regulation of two forms and their physical and kinetic properties." J. Biol. Chem. 262: 9486-9493.
	
Clarke, M., et al. (1987). "Density-dependent induction of discoidin-I synthesis in exponentially growing cells of Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 34: 79-87.
	
Clarke, M. and S. C. Kayman (1987). "The axenic mutations and endocytosis in Dictyostelium." Meth. Cell Biol. 28: 157-176.
	
Clarke, M. and A. Baron (1987). "Myosin filaments in cytosckeletons of Dictyostelium amoebae." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 7: 293-303.
	
Choi, A. H. C. and C. H. Siu (1987). "Filopodia are enriched in a cell cohesion molecule of Mr 80,000 and paticipate in cell-cell contact formation in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Biol. 104: 1375-1387.
	
Chisholm, R. L., et al. (1987). "Superinduction of the Dictyostelium discoideum cell surface cAMP receptor by pulses of cAMP." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 84: 1030-1034.
	
Chisholm, R. L. (1987). "Isolation of developmentally regulated genes." Meth. Cell Biol. 28: 461-470.
	
Chan, S. A. T., et al. (1987). "Partial purification and characterization of dipeptidyl-amino-peptidase III form Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Mycol. 11: 27-35.
	
Chambers, T. C., et al. (1987). "Identification of nuclear substrates of the cAMP dependent protein kinase in Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Differ. 20: 217-230.
	
Ceccarelli, A., et al. (1987). "Structural and functional characterization of a Dictyostelium gene encoding a DIF inducible, prestalk-enriched mRNA sequence." Nucl. Acids Res. 15: 7463-7476.
	
Cardelli, J. A., et al. (1987). "Defining the intracellular localization pathways followed by lysosomal enzymes in Dictyostelium discoideum." Meth. Cell Biol. 28: 139-155.
	
Byrne, G. and E. C. Cox (1987). "Genesis of a spatial pattern in the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium pallidum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 84: 4140-4144.
	
Butler, M. H. (1987). The tricarboxylic acid cycle in Dictyostelium discoideum: the integration of in vitro and in vivo studies with a kinetic model analysis. Missoula, MT, University of Montana: 168.
	
Burris, R. H. (1987). Kenneth Bryan Raper (11 July 1908-15 January 1987). Am. Philos. Soc. Yearbook.
	
Brown, S. S. and A. S. Petzold (1987). "Using antibodies against Dictyostelium membranes to identify an actin-binding membrane protein." J. Cell Biol. 104: 513-518.
	
Brookman, J. J., et al. (1987). "Nature and distribution of the morphogen DIF in the Dictyostelium slug." Development 100: 119-124.
	
Briscoe, D. A., et al. (1987). "Genetic diversity in cellular slime molds: Allozyme electrophoresis and a monoclonal antibody reveal cryptic species among Dictyostelium discoideum strains." Genetics 117: 213-220.
	
Brickey, D. A. and C. L. Rutherford (1987). The effect of cAMP and its analogs on the regulation of the two forms of glycogen phosphorylase in Dictyostelium discoideum. Fed. Proc.
	
Breen, E. J., et al. (1987). "Movement of the multicellular slug stage of Dictyostelium discoideum: an analytical approach." Development 101: 313-321.
	
Brechner, T., et al. (1987). Structure, organization and expression of transfer RNAglu genes from Dictyostelium discoideum. Biol. Chem. H-S.
	
Bozzone, D. M., et al. (1987). "Relationships between cell-cell interactions, cAMP, and gene expression in a developmental mutant of Dictyostelium discoideum." Neurochem. Res. 12: 1005-1012.
	
Bozzone, D. M. and E. A. Berger (1987). "Distinct developmental regulation and properties of the responsiveness of different genes to cAMP in Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 33: 197-206.
	
Bozzaro, S., et al. (1987). "Cell adhesion: its quantification, assay of the molecules involved, and selection of defective mutants in Dictyostelium and Polysphondylium." Meth. Cell Biol. 28: 359-385.
	
Bozzaro, S., et al. (1987). "Cell differentiation in the absence of intracellular and extracellular cyclic AMP pulses in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 123: 540-548.
	
Boto, L., et al. (1987). "Biochemical and morphological effects of sodium butyrate on Dictyostelium discoideum development." Mol. Cell. Biochem. 74: 137-147.
	
Bohme, R., et al. (1987). "A high affinity plasma membrane Ca2+-ATPase in Dictyostelium discoideum: its relation to cAMP-induced Ca2+ fluxes." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 904: 125-130.
	
Berlot, C. H., et al. (1987). "Chemoattractant elicited increases in Dictyostelium myosin phosphorylation are due to changes in myosin localization and increases in kinase activity." J. Biol. Chem. 262: 3918-3926.
	
Berlot, C. (1987). "Identification of chemoattractant-elicited increases in protein phosphorylation." Meth. Cell Biol. 28: 333-345.
	
Berger, E. A. and E. D. Dulaney (1987). A strategy for the isolation of mutants of Dictyostelium defective in the responses of genes to cyclic AMP. Molecular Approaches to Developmental Biology. R. A. Firtel and E. H. Davidson. New York, A.R. Liss: 401-411.
	
Barondes, S. H. and W. R. Springer (1987). An endogenous lectin and an oligosaccharide participate in adhesion mechanism in Dictyostelium. Genetic regulation of development (45th symp. soc. dev. biol.). W. F. Loomis. New York, A.R. Liss: 129-140.
	
Barondes, S. H., et al. (1987). "Discoidins I and II: endogenous lectins involved in cell-substratum adhesion and spore coat formation." Meth. Cell Biol. 28: 387-409.
	
Ayres, K., et al. (1987). "Developmental regulation of DNase-I hypersensitive sites in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cell. Biol. 7: 1823-1829.
	
Armistead III, N. L. (1987). A survey of cellular slime molds at selected sites on the James River, Virginia. Richmond, VA, University of Richmond.
	
Aragon, J. J., et al. (1987). Fructose-2,6-bisphosphate in Dictyostelium discoideum: inhibition of fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase and regulation of its levels. Fed. Proc.
	
Amara, J. F. and H. F. Lodish (1987). "Specific mRNA destabilization in Dictyostelium discoideum requires RNA synthesis." Mol. Cell. Biol. 7: 4585-4588.
	
Amagai, A. (1987). "Regulation of the developmental modes in Dictyostelium mucoroides by cAMP and ethylene." Differentiation 36: 111-115.
	
Akiyama, Y. and K. Inouye (1987). "Cell-type conversion in normally proportioned and prestalk-enriched populations of slug cells in Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 35: 83-87.
	
Aerts, R. J., et al. (1987). "Cytoplasmic pH at the onset of development in Dictyostelium." J. Cell Sci. 87: 423-430.
	
Aerts, R. J., et al. (1987). "Cyclic AMP induces a transient alkanization in Dictyostelium." FEBS Lett. 220: 366-370.
	
Aerts, P. (1987). Cytoplasmic pH in Dictyostelium discoideum. Leiden, Rul: 83.
	
(1987). Cracking the mold (Science and the citizen). Scientific Am. 257 (Aug.): 26.
	
Yumura, T. and Y. Fukui (1986). Diphasic disassembly of microtubules in the breakdown process of the interphase network during the mitotic prophase of Dictyostelium. Cell Struct. Funct.
	
Yoshida, M. and G. Gerisch (1986). Identification of carbohydrate moieties involved in the cell contact of Dictyostelium discoideum. Cell Struct. Funct.
	
Wuestehube, L. J. and E. J. Luna (1986). A 17 kD integral membrane protein in D. discoideum plasma membrane binds F-actin. J. Cell Biol.
	
Wright, B. E. (1986). "Measuring metabolic control with kinetic models." TIBS 11: 164-165.
	
Woychik, N. A., et al. (1986). "A conformationally altered precursor to the lysosomal enzyme alpha-mannosidase accumulates in the endoplasmic reticulum in a mutant strain of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 261: 9595-9602.
	
Woychik, N. A. (1986). Synthesis and post-translational processing of lysosomal enzyme precursors in Dictyostelium discoideum. Madison, WI, The University of Wisconsin - Madison: 241.
	
Wong, L. M. and C.-H. Siu (1986). "Cloning of cDNA for the contact site A glycoprotein of Dictostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 83: 4248-4252.
	
Wolosewick, J. J. and J. Condeelis (1986). "Fine structure of gels prepared from an actin-binding protein and actin: comparison to cytoplasmic extracts and cortical cytoplasm in amoeboid cells of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell. Biochem. 30: 227-243.
	
Woffendin, C., et al. (1986). "Translocation of cAMP-dependent protein kinase to the nucleus during development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 115: 1-8.
	
Witke, W., et al. (1986). "Studies on the transcription, translation, and structure of alpha-actinin in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Biol. 103: 969-975.
	
Williams, K. L., et al. (1986). "Cell migrations during morphogenesis: some clues from the slug of Dictyostelium discoideum." Bioessays 5: 148-152.
	
Williams, J. G., et al. (1986). The control of gene expression during cellular differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum. Regulation of gene expression (39th Symp. Soc. Gen. Microbiol.). I. R. Booth and C. F. Higgins. Cambridge, UK, Cambridge Univ. Press. 39: 277-298.
	
Williams, G. B., et al. (1986). "NH3 and propionate modulate the morphological response of aggregation-competent Dictyostelium discoideum to cAMP." Differentiation 31: 92-99.
	
Westphal, M., et al. (1986). "Transcript regulation and carboxyterminal extension of ubiquitin in Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 209: 92-96.
	
West, C. M., et al. (1986). "Glycoantigen expression is regulated both temporally and spatially during development in the cellular slime molds Dictyostelium discoideum and D. mucoroides." Mol. Cell. Biochem. 72: 121-140.
	
West, C. and G. Erdos (1986). Localization of spore coat proteins in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium. J. Cell Biol.
	
Welker, D. L., et al. (1986). "The use of restriction fragment length polymorphisms and DNA duplications to study the organization of the actin multigene family in Dictyostelium discoideum." Genetics 112: 27-42.
	
Welker, D. L. (1986). "Linkage analysis of nystatin resistance mutation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Genetics 113: 53-62.
	
Warrick, H. M., et al. (1986). "Conserved protein domains in a myosin heavy chain gene from Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 83: 9433-9437.
	
Wang, M., et al. (1986). "Multiple effects of differentiation-inducing factor on prespore differentiation and cyclic-AMP signal transduction in Dictyostelium." Differentiation 33: 24-28.
	
Wallraff, E., et al. (1986). "Selection of Dictyostelium mutants defective in cytoskeletal proteins: use of an antibody that binds to the ends of alpha-actinin rods." EMBO J. 5: 61-67.
	
Waddell, D. R. and K. T. I. Duffy (1986). "Breakdown of self/nonself recognition in cannibalistic strains of the predatory slime mold, Dictyostelium caveatum." J. Cell Biol. 102: 298-305.
	
Waddell, D. (1986). Self non-self recognition in the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium caveatum. Am. Zool.
	
Varnum-Finney, B. J. (1986). Characterization of chemotaxis and aggregation in Dictyostelium discoideum: a single cell analysis. Iowa City, IA, The University of Iowa: 278.
	
Varnum, B., et al. (1986). "The developmental regulation of single-cell motility in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 113: 218-227.
	
Vardy, P. H., et al. (1986). "Traction proteins in the extracellular matrix of Dictyostelium discoideum slugs." Nature 320: 526-529.
	
van Waarde, A. and P. J. M. van Haastert (1986). "Effect of drugs on lipid methylation, receptor-adenylate cyclase coupling and cyclic AMP secretion in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 887: 229-235.
	
van Waarde, A. (1986). Protein carboxyl methylation, nonpolar lipid and phospholipid methylation during development of Dictyostelium discoideum. Biochemical, pharmacological, and clinical aspects of transmethylation. J. M. Mato. Madrid, Jarpyo Editores: 37-46.
	
van Lookeren Campagne, M. M., et al. (1986). "Specificity of adenosine inhibition of cAMP-induced responses in Dictyostelium resembles that of the P site of higher organisms." Dev. Biol. 117: 245-251.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M., et al. (1986). "G-protein-mediated interconversions of cell-surface cAMP receptors and their involvement in excitation and desensitization of guanylate cyclase in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 261: 6904-6911.
	
van Driel, R., et al. (1986). Extracellular cAMP in Dictyostelium discoideum tissue. Progress in developmental biology. Part A (Series: Progress Clin. Biol. Res.). H. C. Slavkin. New York, A.R. Liss. 217A: 87-91.
	
Urushihara, H. and K. Yanagisawa (1986). Ghost-cell interaction results in the lysis of fusion-competent cells in Dictyostelium discoideum. Devel. Growth Differ.
	
Uchiyama, S., et al. (1986). "Reduction of nucleolar size in reaggregated Dictyostelium cells." Cell Struct. Funct. 11: 359-366.
	
Tsang, A. S. and M. Tasaka (1986). "Identification of multiple cAMP binding proteins in developing Dictyostelium discoideum cells." J. Biol. Chem. 261: 10753-10759.
	
Toda, K., et al. (1986). "A microcyst-overproducing mutant of Polysphondylium pallidum." Cell Differ. 18: 137-143.
	
Toda, K. (1986). "Cell-adhesion molecules in the cellular slime mold." Seikagaku 58: 1139.
	
Theibert, A., et al. (1986). "The specificity of the cAMP receptor mediating activation of adenylate cyclase in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 114: 529-533.
	
Theibert, A., et al. (1986). "Cell-cell interactions in the development of Dictyostelium." Am. Zool. 26: 549-551.
	
Theibert, A. and P. Devreotes (1986). "Surface receptor-mediated activation of adenylate cyclase in Dictyostelium. Regulation by guanine nucleotides in wild-type cells and aggregation deficient mutants." J. Biol. Chem. 261: 15121-15125.
	
Tasaka, M., et al. (1986). "Regulation of prestalk-specific acid phosphatase in Dictyostelium discoideum." Devel. Growth Differ. 28: 471-482.
	
Takeuchi, I., et al. (1986). "Prestalk and prespore differentiation during development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Curr. Topics Dev. Biol. 20: 243-256.
	
Takeuchi, I. and T. Kakutani (1986). Pattern formation in Dictyostelium as analyzed from movement of anterior-like cells. Progress in developmental biology. Part A (Series: Progress Clin. Biol. Res.). H. C. Slavkin. New York, A.R. Liss. 217A: 83-86.
	
Tafuri, S. and E. Kuczmarski (1986). Separation and exchange of Dictyostelium light-chains. J. Cell Biol.
	
Sugiura, K. and a. Ishikawa (1986). "Cell fusion and its application to genetic analysis of development in Dictyostelium discoideum." Devel. Growth Differ. 28: 597-601.
	
Steel, L. F. and A. Jacobson (1986). "Ribosomal proteins are encoded by single copy genes in Dictyostelium discoideum." Gene 41: 165-172.
	
Smith, A. M. (1986). The application of immunological techniques in the analysis of differentiation and pattern formation in Dictyostelium discoideum (development, monoclonal antibody). Chicago, IL, University of Illinois at Chicago: 166.
	
Small, N. V., et al. (1986). "Calcium induces cyclic GMP formation in Dictyostelium." FEBS Lett. 203: 11-14.
	
Skaer, H. (1986). "Scientific slime moulds (editorial)." Cryo-letters 7: 204-206.
	
Siu, C.-H., et al. (1986). Mechanism of action of the contact site A glycoprotein during development of Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Simon, J. R. and D. L. Taylor (1986). "Preperation of a fluorescent analog: acetamidofluoresceinyl-labeled Dictyostelium discoideum alpha-actinin." Meth. Enzymol. 134: 487-507.
	
Simon, J., et al. (1986). The dynamic interaction of Dictyostelium discoideum alpha-actinin with F-actin. J. Cell Biol.
	
Shiozawa, J., et al. (1986). A mechanism for transmembrane signaling for patching and capping of concanavalin-A receptors on Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Shiozawa, J., et al. (1986). Topography and intermolecular disulfide bonds of proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum plasma-membrane. Fed. Proc.
	
Shaw, D. R., et al. (1986). "The normal program of gene expression during spore germination in Dictyostelium discoideum is deranged in a germination defective mutant." Dev. Biol. 117: 636-643.
	
Shaw, D. R., et al. (1986). "The 3'-noncoding region of the chick myosin light-chain gene hybridizes to a family of repetitive sequences in the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 246: 829-837.
	
Seshadri, J., et al. (1986). "The characterization and secretion pattern of the lysosomal trehalases of Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Mycol. 10: 131-143.
	
Sekimura, T. and Y. Kobuchi (1986). Cell trajectory and velocity in the pattern formation of Dictyostelium discoideum. Devel. Growth Differ.
	
Sekimura, T. and Y. Kobuchi (1986). "A spatial pattern formation model for Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Theor. Biol. 122: 325-338.
	
Segel, L. A., et al. (1986). "A mechanism for exact sensory adaptation based on receptor modification." J. Theor. Biol. 120: 151-179.
	
Schwartz, M. A. and E. J. Luna (1986). "Binding and assembly of actin filaments by plasma membranes from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Biol. 102: 2067-2075.
	
Schleicher, M., et al. (1986). "Direct photoaffinity labeling of soluble GTP-binding proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 200: 156-160.
	
Schaap, P. and M. Wang (1986). "Interactions between adenosine and oscillatory cAMP signaling regulate size and pattern in Dictyostelium." Cell 45: 137-144.
	
Schaap, P., et al. (1986). "Postaggregative differentiation induction by cyclic AMP in Dictyostelium: Intracellular transduction pathway and requirement for additional stimuli." Dev. Biol. 118: 52-63.
	
Schaap, P. (1986). "Regulation of size and pattern in the cellular slime molds." Differentiation 33: 1-16.
	
Saxe III, C. L. and R. A. Firtel (1986). "Regulation of late gene expression in a temperature sensitive cohesion-defective mutant of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Genet. 7: 99-108.
	
Saxe III, C. L. and R. A. Firtel (1986). "Analysis of gene expression in rapidly developing mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 115: 407-414.
	
Satre, M., et al. (1986). "Intracellular pH control in Dictyostelium discoideum: a 31P-NMR analysis." Biochimie 68: 1253-1261.
	
Sameshima, M., et al. (1986). Correlative changes of cell-adhesion and the orientation of nucleus and microtubule-organizing center (mtoc) in migrating Dictyostelium discoideum. Cell Struct. Funct.
	
Sadiq, M. F. (1986). A study of cell differentiation in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum: genetic and biochemical approaches (cyclic-AMP, phorbor, caffeine, meclofenamate). Cleveland, OH, Case Western Reserve University: 151.
	
Rutherford, C. L., et al. (1986). Identification of two forms of glycogen phosphorylase during cellular differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum. Fed. Proc.
	
Rutherford, C. L. and M. J. Cloutier (1986). "Identification of two forms of glycogen phosphorylase in Dictyostelium." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 250: 435-439.
	
Rossomando, E. F. and J. Hadjimichael (1986). "Characterization and cAMP inhibition of a lysyl-(N-epsilon-5'-phospho) adenosyl phosphoamidase in Dictyostelium discoideum." Internatl. J. Biochem. 18: 481-484.
	
Roos, U. P., et al. (1986). "Cell shape and organization of F-actin and microtubules in randomly moving and stationary amebae of Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 6: 176-185.
	
Riley, G. and E. Henderson (1986). Glycoprotein-linked oligosaccharide processing in the prespore and prestalk cells of Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Riley, B. B. and S. L. Barclay (1986). "Inhibitors of intracellular cyclic AMP accumulation affect differentiation of sporogenous mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 37: 221-226.
	
Rifkin, J. L. and A. W. Wali (1986). "Effects of pteridines on the filopodia of Dictyostelium discoideum vegetative amoebae." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 6: 479-484.
	
Reymond, C. D., et al. (1986). Regulation of the Dictyostelium ras gene during development and in transformants. Progress in Developmental Biology. Part A (Series: Progress Clin. Biol. Res.). H. C. Slavkin. New York, A.R. Liss. 217A: 17-21.
	
Reymond, C. D., et al. (1986). "Phenotypic changes induced by a mutated Ras gene during the development of Dictyostelium transformants." Nature 323: 340-343.
	
Reymond, C., et al. (1986). Phenotypic effects of mutated ras genes in Dictyostelium transformants. Experientia.
	
Ratner, D. I. (1986). "Equivalence of intracellular pH of differentiating Dictyostelium cell types." Nature 321: 180-182.
	
Presse, F., et al. (1986). "Analysis of the expression of two genes of Dictyostelium discoideum which code for developmentally regulated cysteine proteinases." Mol. Gen. Genet. 203: 333-340.
	
Presse, F., et al. (1986). "Structural analysis of a developmentally regulated sequence encoding for a cysteine proteinase in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Gen. Genet. 203: 324-332.
	
Presse, F. (1986). Etude de la structure et de l'expression au cours du developpement de Dictyostelium discoideum de deux genes codant pour des proteines apparentees a des thiol-proteases. Paris, Universite de Paris-Sud, Centre d'Orsay: 137.
	
Poff, K. L., et al. (1986). "An optical model for phototactic orientation in Dictyostelium discoideum slugs." Plant Cell Physiol. 27: 533-539.
	
Podgorski, G. J., et al. (1986). "Isolation of a cDNA encoding a portion of the cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 132: 1043-1050.
	
Petzold, A. and S. Brown (1986). Using antibodies to study actin - membrane interaction in Dictyostelium. J. Cell Biol.
	
Pavlovic, J., et al. (1986). "Hypersensitive sites in the 5' and 3' flanking regions of the cysteine proteinase I gene of Dictyostelium discoideum." Nucl. Acids Res. 14: 8703-8722.
	
Patton, W. F., et al. (1986). Two-dimensional electrophoretic analysis of plasma-membrane protein-changes associated with concanavalin A-induced capping in Dictyostelium discoideum. Fed. Proc.
	
Pate, E. F. and H. G. Othmer (1986). "Differentiation, cell sorting and proportion regulation in the slug stage of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Theor. Biol. 118: 301-319.
	
Parissenti, A. M. and M. B. Coukell (1986). "Relationship of the cGMP-binding activity to the cGMP-specific phosphodiesterase in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Cell Biol. 64: 528-534.
	
Parish, R. W., et al. (1986). "Methidiumpropyl-EDTA-iron(II) cleavage of the ribosomal DNA chromatin from Dictyostelium discoideum." Nucl. Acids Res. 14: 2089-2107.
	
Pardee, J., et al. (1986). Isolation, characterization and localization of a 34kd actin bundling protein from Dictyostelium discoideum. Biophys. J.
	
Pagh, K. and G. Gerisch (1986). Polymerization of Dictyostelium discoideum myosin: location of functional sites and effects on actin activated ATPase activity. J. Muscle Res. Cell Motil.
	
Pagh, K. and G. Gerisch (1986). "Monoclonal antibodies binding to the tail of Dictyostelium discoideum myosin: their effect on antiparallel and parallel assembly and actin-activated ATPase activity." J. Cell Biol. 103: 1527-1538.
	
Oyama, M. and D. D. Blumberg (1986). "Changes during differentiation in requirements for cAMP for expression of cell-type-specific mRNAs in the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 117: 550-556.
	
Oyama, M. and D. D. Blumberg (1986). "Cyclic AMP and NH3/NH4+ both regulate cell-type-specific mRNA accumulation in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 117: 557-566.
	
Oyama, M. and D. D. Blumberg (1986). "Interaction of cAMP with the cell-surface receptor induces cell-type specific mRNA accumulation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 83: 4819-4823.
	
Otte, A. P., et al. (1986). "Production and turnover of cAMP signals by prestalk and prespore cells in Dictyostelium discoideum cell aggregates." Differentiation 32: 185-191.
	
Oohata, A. A. (1986). "Multiple forms of acid phosphatase and their differential secretion during stalk formation under submerged monolayer incubation of Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Differ. 19: 271-279.
	
Okamoto, K. (1986). "Continuous requirement of cAMP for pre-spore differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 37: 383-385.
	
Okaichi, K., et al. (1986). Effect of UV irradiation on RNA synthesis in Dictyostelium discoideum during germination. J. Radiat. Res.
	
Okada, H., et al. (1986). "Nuclear fusion in multinucleated giant cells during the sexual development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 118: 95-102.
	
Ohmori, T. and Y. Maeda (1986). "Implications of differential chemotaxis and cohesiveness for cell sorting in the development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Devel. Growth Differ. 28: 169-175.
	
Odell, G. M. and J. T. Bonner (1986). "How the Dictyostelium discoideum grex crawls." Phil. Trans. R. Soc. Lond. B 312: 487-525.
	
Noegel, A., et al. (1986). "cDNA clones coding for alpha-actinin of Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 204: 107-109.
	
Noegel, A., et al. (1986). "Complete sequence and transcript regulation of a cell adhesion protein from aggregating Dictyostelium cells." EMBO J. 5: 1473-1476.
	
Newell, P. C. (1986). "The role of actin polymerization in amoebal chemotaxis." Bioessays 5: 208-211.
	
Newell, P. C. (1986). Receptors for cell communication in Dictyostelium. Hormones, receptors and cellular interactions in plants. C. M. Chadwick and D. R. Garrod. Cambridge; New York, Cambridge Univ. Press: 154-184.
	
Neuman, W. L. (1986). Structural characterization of a developmentally regulated gene of Dictyostelium discoideum. Chicago, IL, State University of Illinois at Chicago, Health Sciences Center: 141.
	
Ness, P. J., et al. (1986). "Mapping of endogenous nuclease-sensitive regions and of putative topoisomerase sites of action along chromatin of Dictyostelium ribosomal RNA genes." J. Mol. Biol. 188: 287-300.
	
Nellen, W., et al. (1986). "Regulatory sequences in the promoter of the Dictyostelium actin 6 gene." EMBO J. 5: 3367-3372.
	
Neave, N., et al. (1986). "The distribution of the stalk cell differentiation inducing factor and other lipids during the differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Cell Biol. 64: 85-90.
	
Nanjundiah, V. (1986). "How rapidly do uncoupled oscillators desynchronize." J. Theor. Biol. 121: 375-379.
	
Mutzel, R., et al. (1986). "tRNA (adenine-N1)-methyltransferase from Dictyostelium discoideum. Purification, characterization and developmental changes in activity." Eur. J. Biochem. 160: 101-108.
	
Murray, T., et al. (1986). "Inhibition of fungal spore germination by gramicidin S and its potential use as a biocontrol against fungal plant pathogens." Lett. Appl. Microbiol. 3: 5-7.
	
Muller, U., et al. (1986). "Single ion channels in the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta. 857: 287-290.
	
Moore, B. R. (1986). Effects of the change in the post-translational modification on the lysosomal enzymes in Dictyostelium discoideum. Buffalo, NY, state University of New York (SUNY) at Buffalo: 167.
	
Moin, K. (1986). Analysis of factors implicated in the regulation of thiol proteinases in Dictyostelium discoideum (heat stress, plasma membrane, inhibitor, glutathione oxidase). Missoula, MT, University of Montana: 136.
	
Mee, J. D., et al. (1986). "Chemotaxis-associated properties of separated prestalk and prespore cells of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Cell Biol. 64: 722-732.
	
McRobbie, S. J. (1986). "Chemotaxis and cell motility in the cellular slime molds." CRC Crit. Rev. Microbiol. 13: 335-375.
	
McNamara, G. (1986). Ground and excited state cell behaviors in Dictyostelium pattern formation mutants. Am. Zool.
	
McDonald, S. A. (1986). A temporal basis for differentiation in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum (cell cycle, aging, asynchrony, autonomy). Princeton, NJ, Princeton University: 80.
	
McDonald, S. A. (1986). "Cell-cycle regulation of center initiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 117: 546-549.
	
McDonald, S. (1986). Cell cycle regulation of chemotactic center initiation in Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
McConachie, D. R. and D. H. O'Day (1986). "The immediate induction of extensive cell fusion by Ca2+ addition in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Cell Biol. 64: 1281-1287.
	
Manrow, R. E. and A. Jacobson (1986). "Identification and characterization of developmentally regulated mRP proteins of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 116: 213-227.
	
Maeda, Y. and T. Kawamoto (1986). "Pinocytosis in Dictyostelium discoideum cells.  A possible implication of cytoskeletal actin for pinocytotic activity." Exp. Cell Res. 164: 516-526.
	
Maeda, Y. (1986). "A new method for inducing synchronous growth of Dictyostelium discoideum cells using temperature shifts." J. Gen. Microbiol. 132: 1189-1196.
	
Maeda, M. (1986). "Effects of low temperature on differentiation of Dictyostelium cells in the vegetative and preaggregation stages." Devel. Growth Differ. 28: 259-266.
	
Luna, E. J. and C. M. Goodloe-Holland (1986). Biochemical analysis of actin-membrane interactions. Membrane skeletons and cytoskeletal-membrane associations (UCLA symp. mol. cell. biol.). V. Bennett, C. M. Cohen, S. E. Lux and J. Palek. New York, A.R. Liss: 269-280.
	
Luderus, M. E. E., et al. (1986). "Modulation of the interaction between chemotactic cAMP-receptor and N-protein by cAMP-dependent kinase in Dictyostelium discoideum membranes." FEBS Lett. 205: 189-194.
	
Loomis, W. F. and M. Gilpin (1986). "Multigene families and vestigial DNA." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 83: 2143-2147.
	
Loomis, W. F. (1986). Developmental processes in Dictyostelium. Dev Biol. W. F. Loomis. New York, MacMillan: 251-274.
	
Lewis, K. E. and D. H. O'Day (1986). "Phagocytic specificity during sexual development in Dictyostelium discoideum." Can. J. Microbiol. 32: 79-82.
	
Leichtling, B. H., et al. (1986). cAMP-dependent protein kinase during development of D. discoideum. Progress in developmental biology. Part A (Series: Progress Clin. Biol. Res.). H. C. Slavkin. New York, A.R. Liss. 217A: 93-96.
	
Larsen, R. A. (1986). Glutathione oxidase: a novel developmentally-regulated enzyme of the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum. Missoula, MT, University of Montana: 129.
	
Lang, L., et al. (1986). "Glycoprotein phosphorylation in simple eucaryotic organisms. Identification of UDP-GlcNAc:glycoprotein N-acetylglucosamine-1-phosphotransferase activity and analysis of substrate specificity." J. Biol. Chem. 261: 6320-6325.
	
Landolt, J. C. and S. L. Stephenson (1986). "Cellular slime molds in forest soils of southwestern Virginia." Mycologia 78: 500-502.
	
Landolt, J. C. (1986). "Cellular slime molds (Dictyosteliales) of selected plant communities of southern Oklahoma and northern Texas." Southwestern Naturalist 31: 267-269.
	
Lacombe, M. L., et al. (1986). "Molecular cloning and developmental expression of the cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase gene of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 261: 16811-16817.
	
Kumagai, A. and K. Okamoto (1986). "Prespore-inducing factors in Dictyostelium discoideum. Developmental regulation and partial purification." Development 31: 79-84.
	
Kuczmarski, E. R. and J. Pagone (1986). "Myosin specific phosphatases isolated from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Muscle Res. Cell Motil. 7: 510-516.
	
Kuczmarski, E. R. (1986). "Partial purification of two myosin heavy chain kinases from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Muscle Res. Cell Motil. 7: 501-509.
	
Krill, D. C. (1986). Production and role of oxygenated lipids in the development of Dictyostelium discoideum (eicosanoids). Cleveland, OH, Case Western Reserve University: 153.
	
Koury, S. T. and B. S. Eckert (1986). Ultrastructural identification of intermediate-sized filaments in Dictyostelium. Biol. Bull.
	
Komatsu, Y. and H. Shimizu (1986). Roles of cAMP pulse during early development of Dictyostelium discoideum. Devel. Growth Differ.
	
Kohnken, R. and E. Berger (1986). Characterization of the carbohydrate binding activity of discoidin I, a Dictyostelium lectin, immobilized on nitrocellulose. J. Cell Biol.
	
Kobuchi, Y. (1986). A density dependent model for cellular slime molds pattern formation. Devel. Growth Differ.
	
Knecht, D. A., et al. (1986). "Developmental regulation of Dictyostelium discoideum actin gene fusions carried on low-copy and high-copy transformation vectors." Mol. Cell. Biol. 6: 3973-3983.
	
Klein, G. and M. Satre (1986). Kinetics of pinocytosis in the social ameba Dictyostelium discoideum. Biol. Cell.
	
Klein, G. and M. Satre (1986). "Kinetics of fluid-phase pinocytosis in Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 138: 1146-1152.
	
Klein, G., et al. (1986). "Effect of a mushroom toxin, orellanine, on the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum and the bacterium Escherichia coli." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 33: 19-22.
	
Klein, C., et al. (1986). "Immunological analyses of the chemotactic receptor of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 261: 15192-15196.
	
Kinsella, B. A., et al. (1986). "Effect of the amino acid analog hadacidin on intracellular membrane flow and the cell surface in Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 31: 100-105.
	
Kimmel, A. R. and C. L. Saxe III (1986). "cAMP-controlled gene expression in Dictyostelium mutants exhibiting abnormal patterns of developmental cAMP metabolism." Dev. Biol. 117: 209-214.
	
Kimmel, A. R. and B. Carlisle (1986). "A gene expressed in undifferentiated vegetative Dictyostelium is repressed by developmental pulses of cAMP and reinduced during dedifferentiation." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 83: 2506-2510.
	
Khachatrian, L., et al. (1986). Regulation of adenylate cyclase of Dictyostelium discoideum by divalent cations and adenosine analogs. Fed. Proc.
	
Kesbeke, F., et al. (1986). "Cyclic AMP relay and cyclic AMP-induced cyclic GMP accumulation during development of Dictyostelium discoideum." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 34: 85-89.
	
Kay, R. R., et al. (1986). "Intracellular pH in Dictyostelium: a 31P nuclear magnetic resonance study of its regulation and possible role in controlling cell differentiation." J. Cell Sci. 83: 165-179.
	
Kauffman, G. (1986). The effect of organic matter and moisture content on dictyostelids in agricultural soil. Athens, OH, Ohio Univ.
	
Kanda, F. (1986). "Seasonal changes in the density of dictyostelid cellular slime molds in larch forests of Hokkaido." J. Hokkaido Univ. Educ. Sect. II, B 37: 1-3.
	
Kakutani, T. and I. Takeuchi (1986). "Characterization of anterior-like cells in Dictyostelium as analyzed by their movement." Dev. Biol. 115: 439-445.
	
Kaiser, D. (1986). "Control of multicellular development: Dictyostelium and Myxococcus." Annu. Rev. Genet. 20: 539-566.
	
Jimenez, B., et al. (1986). "Changes in the plasma membrane ATPase activity in relationship to cell proliferation in Dictyostelium." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 30: 1092-1098.
	
Janssens, P. M. W. and R. van Driel (1986). "Persistent cAMP binding by the chemotactic cAMP receptor in the presence of a detergent in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 85: 91-101.
	
Janssens, P. M. W. and R. van Driel (1986). "Cis-unsaturated fatty acids modulate the function of the cell-surface cAMP receptor of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 886: 286-294.
	
Janssens, P. M. W., et al. (1986). "Forms of the chemotactic adenosine-3',5'-cyclic phosphate receptor in isolated Dictyostelium discoideum membranes and interconversion induced by guanine nucleotides." Biochemistry 25: 1314-1320.
	
Jahngen, E. G. E. and E. F. Rossomando (1986). "AMP deaminase in Dictyostelium discoideum: Increase in activity following nutrient deprivation induced by starvation or hadacidin." Mol. Cell. Biochem. 71: 71-78.
	
Isobe, K. and S. Uchiyama (1986). "An assay for ribonuclease activity, based on ultraviolet absorption of RNA hydrolysate, using phosphotungstic acid." J. Biochem. Biophys. Meth. 12: 299-303.
	
Ingalls, H. M., et al. (1986). "Junctional plasma membrane domains isolated from aggregating Dictyostelium discoideum amebae." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 83: 4779-4783.
	
Ihara, M., et al. (1986). "Purification and some properties of discadenine synthase from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 881: 135-140.
	
Hurley, D. L. (1986). Alterations of nuclear DNA synthesis after irradiation of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum: studies performed in a mutant strain displaying enhanced thymidine uptake. University Park, The Pennsylvania State University (Penn State): 139.
	
Hock, R. S. (1986). Actin-binding proteins from Dictyostelium discoideum. New York, NY, Yeshiva University: 90.
	
Hock, R., et al. (1986). Properties of the 50 kdalton actin-bundling protein from Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Haribabu, B., et al. (1986). "Cell-cell contact and cAMP regulate the expression of a UDP glucose pyrophosphorylase gene of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 113: 436-442.
	
Haribabu, B., et al. (1986). Cell surface cAMP receptor regulates gene expression in Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Haribabu, B. and R. P. Dottin (1986). "Pharmacological characterization of cyclic AMP receptors mediating gene regulation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cell. Biol. 6: 2402-2408.
	
Haribabu, B., et al. (1986). cAMP regulation of gene expression in Dictyostelium discoideum. Fed. Proc.
	
Hagmann, J. (1986). "Caffeine and heat shock induce adenylate cyclase in Dictyostelium discoideum." EMBO J. 5: 3437-2440.
	
Hagiwara, H. (1986). "Comparative study of Pinus pumila zones from the distribution of Dictyostelid cellular slime molds: Mt. Shiomi-dake and Mt. Hakusan, central Japan." Mem. Natl. Sci. Mus. Tokyo 19: 101-107.
	
Hagiwara, H. (1986). "The Acrasiales in Japan. IX. A new species of Dictyostelium with small spores." Bull. Natl. Sci. Mus. Tokyo, Ser. B 12: 99-105.
	
Hader, D. P. and E. D. Lipson (1986). "Fourier analysis of angular distributions for motile microoganisms." Photochem. Photobiol. 44: 657-663.
	
Hader, D. P. (1986). The effect of enhanced solar UV-B radiation on motile microorganisms. Stratospheric Ozone Reduction, Solar Ultraviolet Radiation and Plant Life. R. C. Worrest and M. M. Caldwell. Berlin, Springer-Verlag: 223-233.
	
Guyer, R. B., et al. (1986). "Uracil-DNA glycosylase activity from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 868: 262-264.
	
Grinfeld, M. and L. A. Segel (1986). "Implementation and extension of MacWilliams model for pre-stalk pre-spore regulation in cellular slime mold." J. Theor. Biol. 121: 23-44.
	
Grant, C., et al. (1986). Function, expression and structure of cAMP receptor genes in Dictyostelium. J. Cell Biol.
	
Gottmann, K. and C. J. Weijer (1986). "In situ measurements of external pH and optical density oscillations in Dictyostelium discoideum aggregates." J. Cell Biol. 102: 1623-1629.
	
Gomer, R. H., et al. (1986). "Cellular and subcellular distribution of a cAMP-regulated prestalk protein and prespore protein in Dictyostelium discoideum: A study on the ontogeny of prestalk and prespore cells." J. Cell Biol. 103: 1999-2015.
	
Gomer, R. H., et al. (1986). "cAMP induction of prespore and prestalk gene expression in Dictyostelium is mediated by the cell-surface cAMP receptor." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 83: 8624-8628.
	
Gomer, R. and R. Firtel (1986). Tissue morphogenesis in Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Golumbeski, G. S. and R. L. Dimond (1986). "The use of toleration in the production of monoclonal antibodies against minor antigenic determinants." Anal. Biochem. 154: 373-381.
	
Goldhagen, H. and M. Clarke (1986). "Identification of the single gene for calmodulin in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cell. Biol. 6: 1851-1854.
	
Goldbeter, A. (1986). Book Review: Modeling dynamic phenomena in molecular and cellular biology (L.A. Segel, Cambridge Univ. Press, 1984). Math. Biosci. 78: 149-152.
	
Glomp, I. and B. Hess (1986). "Cytochrome b of the Dictyostelium discoideum plasma membrane." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 852: 315-319.
	
Giorda, R., et al. (1986). Regulation of the stability of pre-spore specific messenger RNA during development of Dictyostelium discoideum. Eur. J. Cell. Biol.
	
Gerisch, G. (1986). Dictyostelium discoideum. A eukaryotic microorganism that develops by cell aggregation from a unicellular to a multicellular stage. Cellular and molecular aspects of developmental biology. M. Fougereau and R. Stora. Amsterdam, Elsevier: 47-66.
	
Gerisch, G. (1986). "Inter-relation of cell adhesion and differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. Suppl. 4: 201-219.
	
Garrod, D. R. (1986). "Desmosomes, cell adhesion molecules and the adhesive properties of cells in tissues." J. Cell Sci. Suppl. 4: 221-237.
	
Furukawa, R. and M. Fechheimer (1986). Bundling of actin filaments by the 30,000 dalton actin binding-protein from Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Fukui, Y. and S. Yumura (1986). "Actomyosin dynamics in chemotactic amoeboid movement of Dictyostelium." Cell Motil. Cytoskel. 6: 662-673.
	
Freeze, H. H. and D. Wolgast (1986). "Biosynthesis of methylphosphomannosyl residues in the oligosaccharides of Dictyostelium discoideum glycoproteins." J. Biol. Chem. 261: 135-141.
	
Freeze, H. H. and D. Wolgast (1986). "Structural analysis of N-linked oligosaccharides from glycoproteins secreted by Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 261: 127-134.
	
Freeze, H. H. (1986). "Modifications of lysosomal enzymes in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cell. Biochem. 72: 47-65.
	
Freeze, H., et al. (1986). Dictyostelium discoideum: mutants in the biosynthesis of the lipid-linked precursor of N-linked oligosaccharides. Fed. Proc.
	
Frankel, S., et al. (1986). Expression of Dictyostelium actin in Escherichia coli. J. Cell Biol.
	
Fontana, D., et al. (1986). Cell-cell interactions in the development of Dictyostelium. The cell surface in development and cancer. M. S. Steinberg. New York, Plenum Press: 261-281.
	
Ferris, D. K. and C. L. Rutherford (1986). Protein phosphatases in Dictyostelium discoideum. Fed. Proc.
	
Ferris, D. K. and C. L. Rutherford (1986). "Chromatographic resolution of soluble and particulate protein phosphatases from Dictyostelium discoideum." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 248: 10-10.
	
Ferris, D. K. (1986). Protein phosphatases and protein kinases in Dictyostelium (enzyme purification). Blacksburg, VA, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University: 135.
	
Feest, A. and R. Campbell (1986). "The microbiology of soils under successive wheat crops in relation to take-all disease." FEMS Microbiol. Ecol. 38: 99-11.
	
Feest, A. (1986). "Numbers of myxogastrids and other protozoa recovered from Bohemian soils." Ekologia (CSSR) 5: 125-134.
	
Fechheimer, M., et al. (1986). "Measurement of cytoplasmic pH in Dictyostelium discoideum by using a new method for introducing macromolecules into living cells." Eur. J. Cell Biol. 40: 242-247.
	
Europe-Finner, G. N. and P. C. Newell (1986). "Inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate induces calcium release from a non-mitochondrial pool in amoebae of Dictyostelium." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 887: 335-340.
	
Europe-Finner, G. N. and P. C. Newell (1986). "Inositol 1,4,5,-trisphosphate and calcium stimulate actin polymerization in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 82: 41-51.
	
Erster, S. and C. Palatnik (1986). Characterization of an alpha-tubulin genomic DNA fragment from Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Erdos, G. and C. West (1986). Ultrastructural-localization of carbohydrate epitopes in Dictyostelium using monoclonal-antibodies. J. Histochem. Cytochem.
	
Ennis, H., et al. (1986). Gene-expression during spore germination in a Dictyostelium discoideum germination-defective mutant. Fed. Proc.
	
Ellsaesser, C. F., et al. (1986). "Analysis of developmentally defective chemical signaling mutants of Polysphondylium violaceum." J. Bacteriol. 165: 647-649.
	
Ebert, D. L. (1986). Synthesis and localization of lysosomal enzymes in secretory mutants of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum (protein targeting). Madison, WI, The University of Wisconsin - Madison: 251.
	
Earle, J. P. and S. L. Barclay (1986). "A cell surface-localized acetylcholinesterase in the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium violaceum." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 35: 83-87.
	
Duffy, K., et al. (1986). Adhesion, phagocytosis and ameboid locomotion in a mutant Dictyostelium discoideum. Eur. J. Cell Biol.
	
Dowds, B. C. A. and W. F. Loomis (1986). "Hexapeptide repeat structure in Dictyostelium spore coat protein." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 135: 336-339.
	
Dominov, J. A. and C. D. Town (1986). "Regulation of stalk and spore antigen expression in monolayer cultures of Dictyostelium discoideum by pH." J. Embryol. Exp. Morphol. 96: 131-150.
	
Dominov, J. A. (1986). Regulation of the differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum by extracellular pH. Cleveland, OH, Case Western Reserve University: 209.
	
Dingermann, T., et al. (1986). "Structure of two tRNA genes from Dictyostelium discoideum." Nucl. Acids Res. 14: 1127.
	
de Wit, R. J. W. and T. F. Rinke de Wit (1986). "Developmental regulation of the folic acid chemosensory system in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 118: 385-391.
	
de Wit, R. J. W., et al. (1986). "Developmental regulation of the pathways of folate-receptor-mediated stimulation of cAMP and cGMP synthesis in Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 32: 192-199.
	
de Wit, R. J. W. and R. Bulgakov (1986). "2-Deaminofolic acid elicits desensitization without excitation of the cyclic GMP response in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 887: 242-247.
	
de Wit, R. J. W. and R. Bulgakov (1986). "Folate chemotactic receptor in Dictyostelim discoideum. II. Guanine nucleotides alter the rates of interconversion and the proportioning of four receptor states." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 886: 88-95.
	
de Wit, R. J. W. and R. Bulgakov (1986). "Folate chemotactic receptors in Dictyostelium discoideum. I. Ligand-induced conversion between four receptor states." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 886: 76-87.
	
de Gunzburg, J., et al. (1986). "Detection and developmental regulation of the mRNA for the regulatory subunit of the cAMP-dependent protein kinase of D. discoideum by cell-free translation." EMBO J. 5: 363-367.
	
Davis, S. J. and J. F. Wheldrake (1986). "Sulphation and the vegetative growth of Dictyostelium discoideum." Eur. J. Biochem. 158: 179-185.
	
Datta, S., et al. (1986). "Spatial and temporal regulation of a foreign gene by a prestalk-specific promotor in transformed Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cell. Biol. 6: 811-820.
	
Das, O. P. and E. J. Henderson (1986). "Fluorographic detection of tritiated glycopeptides and oligosaccharides separated on polyacrylamide gels: analysis of glycans from Dictyosteloum discoideum glycoproteins." Anal. Biochem. 158: 390-398.
	
Couso, R., et al. (1986). "Phosphorylation of the oligosaccharide of uteroferrin by UDP-GlcNAc:glycoprotein N-acetylglucosamine-1-phosphotransferases from rat liver, Acanthamoeba castellani, and Dictyostelium discoideum requires alpha1,2-linked mannose residues." J. Biol. Chem. 261: 6326-6331.
	
Coukell, M. B. and A. M. Cameron (1986). "Characterization of revertants of stmF mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum: evidence that stmF is the structural gene of the cGMP-specific phosphodiesterase." Dev. Genet. 6: 163-177.
	
Cooper, D. N. W., et al. (1986). "Bacterial glycoconjugates are natural ligands for the carbohydrate binding site of discoidin I and influence its cellular compartmentalization." Dev. Biol. 114: 416-425.
	
Collodi, P. R., et al. (1986). "Aggregation-related and post-aggregation-related cohesive systems in Dictyostelium discoideum involve stage-specific, Ca2+-dependent, DI- or polymeric associations of membrane-bound moieties." Exp. Cell Res. 165: 298-305.
	
Cohen, S. M., et al. (1986). "DNA sequences required for expression of a Dictyostelium actin gene." EMBO J. 5: 3361-3366.
	
Claviez, M., et al. (1986). "Cytoskeletons from a mutant of Dictyostelium discoideum with flattened cells." J. Cell Sci. 86: 69-82.
	
Chisholm, R. L., et al. (1986). Isolation of cDNA clones for the 16 kd and 18 kd myosin light chains from Dictyostelium. J. Cell Biol.
	
Chia, C. P. and E. J. Luna (1986). Isolation of major cell surface proteins of Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Chevalier, M., et al. (1986). "Comparison of the regulatory and catalytic subunits of cAMP dependent protein kinase from Dictyostelium discoideum and bovine heart using polyclonal antibodies." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 136: 651-656.
	
Chadwick, C. M., et al. (1986). Receptors in slime mould cell adhesion. Hormones, Receptors and Cellular Interactions in Plants. C. M. Chadwick and D. R. Garrod. Cambridge, New York, Cambridge Univ. Press: 185-216.
	
Chadwick, C. M. (1986). "Changes in the cell surface level of GP126 during development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Devel. Growth Differ. 28: 203-211.
	
Cavender, J. C. and T. N. Lakhanpal (1986). "Distribution of dictyostelid cellular slime molds in forest soils of India." Mycologia 78: 56-65.
	
Cavender, J. C. and C. Hopka (1986). "Distribution patterns of Ohio soil dictyostelids in relation to physiography." Mycologia 78: 825-831.
	
Cardelli, J. A., et al. (1986). "Initial events involved in the synthesis of the lysosomal enzyme alpha-mannosidase in Dictyostelium discoideum." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 244: 338-345.
	
Cardelli, J. A., et al. (1986). "Lysosomal enzymes in Dictyostelium discoideum are transported to lysosomes at distinctly different rates." J. Cell Biol. 102: 1264-1270.
	
Byrne, G. W. (1986). Immunological detection and spatial analysis of prepatterns for radial branch formation in Polysphondylium pallidum. Princeton, NJ, Princeton University: 89.
	
Byrne, G. and E. C. Cox (1986). "Spatial patterning in Polysphondylium: Monoclonal antibodies specific for whorl prepatterns." Dev. Biol. 117: 442-455.
	
Bumann, J., et al. (1986). "Oscillations of Ca++ concentration during the cell differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 31: 85-91.
	
Bumann, J. and D. Malchow (1986). "Cyclic AMP-induced reversible decrease in cAMP-binding to cell surface receptors of Dictyostelium discoideum." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 33: 99-103.
	
Bumann, J. (1986). Untersuchung der cAMP-Bindung und der Bedeutung von Calcium fur Chemotaxis und Differenzierung bei Dictyostelium discoideum. Konstanz, Univ. Konstanz. PhD: 86.
	
Bozzone, D. M. and E. A. Berger (1986). Developmental analysis of the differential responsiveness of genes to cAMP in Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Bozzaro, S., et al. (1986). Cell differentiation in the absence of intracellular and extracellular cyclic AMP pulses in Dictyostelium discoideum. Eur. J. Cell Biol.
	
Boose, J. A. and E. J. Henderson (1986). Defective cohesion in a temperature sensitive glycosylation mutant of Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Boose, J. A. and E. J. Henderson (1986). "Sulfate suicide selections of Dictyostelium discoideum mutants defective in protein glycosylation." Mol. Cell. Biol. 6: 2820-2827.
	
Boose, J. A. (1986). The biochemical and developmental defects of glycosylation mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum obtained by sulfate suicide selection. Washington, DC, Georgetown University: 378.
	
Bonner, J. T., et al. (1986). "Ammonia orients cell masses and speeds up aggregating cells of slime moulds." Nature 323: 630-632.
	
Blumberg, D. D. and J. F. Comer (1986). Chromatin structure of developmentally related genes in the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum. J Cell Biol.
	
Blaschke, A., et al. (1986). "Dictyostelium discoideum: cell-type proportioning, cell-differentiation preference, cell fate, and the behavior of anterior-like cells in Hs1/Hs2 and G+/G- mixtures." Differentiation 32: 1-9.
	
Bisson, R. and G. Shiavo (1986). "Two different forms of cytochrome c oxidase can be purified from the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 261: 4373-4376.
	
Bhanot, P. (1986). Studies on the para-nitrophenyl phosphate and adenosine monophosphate hydrolyzing activity of Dictyostelium discoideum. Vancouver, BC (Canada), The University of British Columbia.
	
Bettler, B., et al. (1986). Chromatin structure upstream of the Dictyostelium discoideum RNA gene. Experientia.
	
Bennett, V. D. and R. L. Dimond (1986). "Biosynthesis of two developmentally distinct acid phosphatase isozymes in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 261: 5355-5362.
	
Bennett, H. and J. Condeelis (1986). "A gradient in the density of intramembrane particles is formed during capping induced by concanavalin A." J. Cell Sci. 83: 61-76.
	
Bennett, H. (1986). The membrane skeleton of Dictyostelium amoebae (cell motility, spectrin, cytoskeleton, microfilament-membrane interactions, capping). New York, NY, Yeshiva University: 130.
	
Benjaminson, M. A., et al. (1986). Fluorescent cellulase traces in situ cellulose deposition during differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum. Acta Histochem. Cytochem.
	
Behrens, M. M., et al. (1986). "Periodic changes in the cAMP-dependent protein kinase activity ratio in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Int. 13: 221-226.
	
Barclay, S. L. and A. M. Smith (1986). "Identification and analysis of the regulation of a prestalk cell-surface antigen of Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 33: 101-110.
	
Barclay, S. L. and A. M. Smith (1986). "Rapid isolation of monoclonal antibodies specific for cell surface differentiation antigens." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 83: 4336-4340.
	
Barclay, S. L. and E. J. Henderson (1986). "Altered cAMP receptor activity and morphogenesis in a chemosensory mutant of Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 33: 111-120.
	
Aragon, J. J., et al. (1986). "Fructose-2,6-bisphosphatase in Dictyostelium discoideum - independence of cyclic AMP production and inhibition of fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase." Eur. J. Biochem. 161: 757-761.
	
Alexander, S., et al. (1986). "Multiple regulatory genes control expression of a gene family during development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cell. Biol. 6: 4353-4361.
	
Aerts, R. J., et al. (1986). "Cytoplasmic pH and glycolysis in the Dictyostelium discoideum cell cycle." FEBS Lett. 196: 167-170.
	
Abe, T. and Y. Maeda (1986). "Induction of macrocyst germination in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium mucoroides." J. Gen. Microbiol. 132: 2787-2791.
	
Yumura, T. and Y. Fukui (1985). Simultaneous observation of the microtubule and actomyosin cytoskeletons with the chromatin structure in mitotic Dictyostelium cells. Cell Struct. Funct.
	
Yumura, S. and Y. Fukui (1985). Dynamic behavior of myosin thick filaments in chemotactically stimulated Dictyostelium amebas. Cell Struct. Funct.
	
Yumura, S. and Y. Fukui (1985). "Reversible cAMP-dependent change in distribution of myosin thick filaments in Dictyostelium." Nature 314: 194-196.
	
Yudin, I. D., et al. (1985). "Occurrence of auto-waves during the aggregation of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biofizika SSSR 30: 341-346.
	
Wood, L. C. (1985). Transport of alpha-mannosidase during its maturation in Dictyostelium discoideum. St. Louis, MO, Saint Louis University: 102.
	
Wood, L. and A. Kaplan (1985). "Transit of alpha-mannosidase during its maturation in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Biol. 101: 2063-2069.
	
Woffendin, C. and A. J. Griffiths (1985). "Changes in respiratory activity and total protein during synchronous growth of Dictyostelium discoideum." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 29: 263-267.
	
Williams, J. G., et al. (1985). "A developmentally regulated cysteine proteinase in Dictyostelium discoideum." EMBO J. 4: 999-1006.
	
Wilkinson, D. G., et al. (1985). "Spore coat protein synthesis during development of Dictyostelium discoideum requires a low-molecular-weight inducer and continued multicellularity." Dev. Biol. 107: 38-46.
	
West, C. M. and W. F. Loomis (1985). "Absence of a carbohydrate modification does not affect the level or subcellular localization of three membrane glycoproteins in modB mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 260: 13803-13809.
	
Welker, D. L. and K. L. Williams (1985). "Translocations in Dictyostelium discoideum." Genetics 109: 341-364.
	
Welker, D. L., et al. (1985). "Inheritance of extrachromosomal ribosomal DNA during the asexual life cycle of Dictyostelium discoideum: Examination by use of DNA polymorphisms." Mol. Cell. Biol. 5: 273-280.
	
Weijer, C. J., et al. (1985). Cyclic AMP relaying controls pattern formation Dictyostelium discoideum slugs. Eur. J. Cell Biol.
	
Weijer, C. J. and A. J. Durston (1985). "Influence of cyclic AMP and hydrolysis products on cell type regulation in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Embryol. Exp. Morph. 86: 19-37.
	
Wang, M. and P. Schaap (1985). "Correlations between tip dominance, prestalk/prespore pattern, and cAMP-relay efficiency in slugs of Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 30: 7-14.
	
Waddell, D. R. and G. Vogel (1985). "Phagocytic behavior of the predatory slime mold, Dictyostelium caveatum. Cell nibbling." Exp. Cell Res. 159: 323-334.
	
Voet, L., et al. (1985). "Flow cytometer study of anterior-like cells in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 75: 423-435.
	
Vaughan, R. L. (1985). Characterization and localization of a cyclic-AMP dependant protein kinase from Dictyostelium discoideum. Blacksburg, VA, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University: 136.
	
Varnum, B., et al. (1985). "Dictyostelium amebae alter motility differently in response to increasing versus decreasing temporal gradients of cAMP." J. Cell Biol. 101: 1-5.
	
van Waarde, A. and P. J. M. van Hoof (1985). "Nonpolar lipid and phospholipid methylation during development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 836: 27-38.
	
van Waarde, A. and P. J. M. van Hoof (1985). "Pitfalls in the measurement of protein carboxyl methylation during chemotaxis of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 840: 344-354.
	
van Ophem, P. and R. van Driel (1985). "Induction by folate and folate analogs of extracellular and membrane-bound phosphodiesterase from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Bacteriol. 164: 143-146.
	
van Lookeren Campagne, M. M. and C. G. W. M. Lowik (1985). "The developmental regulation of L-ornithine decarboxylase in Dictyostelium discoideum and its induction by cAMP." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 846: 55-63.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M., et al. (1985). "Ca2+-or phorbol ester-dependent effect of ATP on a subpopulation of cAMP cell-surface receptors in membranes from D. discoideum. A role for protein kinase C." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 128: 185-192.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M. (1985). "The modulation of cell surface cAMP receptors from Dictyostelium discoideum by ammonium sulfate." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 845: 254-260.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M. (1985). "cAMP activates adenylate and guanylate cyclase of Dictyostelium discoideum cells by binding to different classes of cell-surface receptors. A study with extracellular Ca2+." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 846: 324-333.
	
van Driel, R., et al. (1985). Regulation of Dictyostelium discoideum cell differentiation by extracellular cyclic AMP. Cell Differ.
	
van Driel, R., et al. (1985). "Protein phosphatases in developing Dictyostelium discoideum cells." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 847: 122-127.
	
Town, C. D., et al. (1985). "Inhibition of differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum by anti-inflammatory drugs." Devel. Growth Differ. 27: 111-116.
	
Thilo, L. (1985). "Quantification of endocytosis-derived membrane traffic." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 822: 243-266.
	
Therrien, D. C. and D. L. Ritch (1985). "A simplified method for the non-axenic liquid cultivation of slime mould amoebae: concanavalin A stimulation of population growth rates." Microbios 44: 117-124.
	
Theibert, W. E. A. B. (1985). Studies of the cyclic-AMP mediated aggregation in Dictyostelium discoideum: receptor mediated activation of the adenylate cyclase. Baltimore, MD, The Johns Hopkins University: 264.
	
Terlouw, G. D. C. (1985). Het ontwikkelen van een in vitro teratogeniteits-testsysteem met behulp van de cellulaire slijmschimmel Dictyostelium discoideum. Leiden, RUL: 1-43.
	
Tasaka, M. and A. Tsang (1985). Characterization of prestalk specific acid phosphatase isozyme of Dictyostelium discoideum. Devel. Growth Differ.
	
Tano, K., et al. (1985). "Characteristics of DNA repair of a UV-sensitive mutant (radC) of Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Gen. Genet. 198: 385-389.
	
Takiya, S., et al. (1985). "Efficiency of in vitro transcription of Dictyostelium discoideum actin gene is affected by the nucleotide sequence of the transcription initiation region." Biochemistry 24: 1040-1047.
	
Takeuchi, I., et al. (1985). Pattern formation in Dictyostelium as analyzed by cell type specific monoclonal antobodies. Cell Differ.
	
Takemoto, K., et al. (1985). "The origin of prespore vacuoles in Dictyostelium discoideum cells as analysed by electron-microscopic immunocytochemistry and radioautography." J. Cell Sci. 77: 93-108.
	
Suthers, H. B. (1985). "Ground-feeding migratory songbirds as cellular slime mold distribution vectors." Oecologia 65: 526-530.
	
Stratford, C. A. and S. S. Brown (1985). "Isolation of an actin-binding protein from membranes of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Biol. 100: 727-735.
	
Stadler, J., et al. (1985). "In vivo acylation of Dictyostelium actin with palmitic acid." EMBO J. 4: 1153-1156.
	
Springer, W. R. and S. H. Barondes (1985). "Protein-linked oligosaccharide implicated in cell-cell adhesion in two Dictyostelium species." Dev. Biol. 109: 102-110.
	
Siu, C.-H., et al. (1985). "Inhibition of cell-cell binding at the aggregation stage of Dictyostelium discoideum development by monoclonal antibodies directed against an 80,000-Dalton surface glycoprotein." J. Biol. Chem. 260: 16030-16036.
	
Sinclair, J. H. and D. Rickwood (1985). "Major changes in phosphorylation of chromatin-associated non-histone proteins accompany development in the slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. J. 229: 771-778.
	
Shaw, D., et al. (1985). A family of Dictyostelium discoideum repetitive sequences homologous to the chicken myosin light chain gene. Fed. Proc.
	
Sharpe, P. T. and D. J. Watts (1985). "The role of the cell cycle in differentiation of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cell. Biochem. 67: 3-9.
	
Sharpe, P. T. and D. J. Watts (1985). "Use of aqueous two-phase partition to detect cell surface changes during growth of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell. Sci. 75: 339-346.
	
Sharpe, P. T., et al. (1985). "Polypeptide compositions of amoebae of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum separated by partitioning during development." Biosci. Reports 5: 121-127.
	
Shapiro, R. A. (1985). Poly(A) metabolism and messenger-RNA stability in Dictyostelium discoideum (polysome distribution, complementary-DNA). Worcester, MA, Worcester Polytechnic Institute: 141.
	
Serrano, R., et al. (1985). "The plasma membrane ATPase of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 812: 553-560.
	
Segall, J. E., et al. (1985). Selection of chemotaxis and motility mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum. Eur. J. Cell Biol.
	
Schleicher, M., et al. (1985). Comparative studies on structure, function and expression of cytoskeletal proteins in Dictyostelium wild-type cells and a mutant defective in alpha-actinin. Eur. J. Cell Biol.
	
Schaller, K. L., et al. (1985). "Cloning of the gene for the regulatory subunit of cAMP-dependent protein kinase in Dictyostelium." Promega Notes 3: 2-3.
	
Schaap, P. and M. Wang (1985). "cAMP induces a transient elevation of cGMP levels during early culmination of Dictyostelium minutum." Cell Differ. 16: 29-33.
	
Schaap, P. and R. van Driel (1985). "Induction of post-aggregative differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum by cAMP. Evidence of involvement of the cell surface cAMP receptor." Exp. Cell Res. 159: 388-398.
	
Schaap, P., et al. (1985). "Patterns of cell differentiation in several cellular slime mold species." Dev. Biol. 111: 51-61.
	
Schaap, P. (1985). "cAMP relay during early culmination of Dictyostelium minutum." Differentiation 28: 205-208.
	
Satre, M. and J. B. Martin (1985). Phosphorus nuclear magnetic resonance in Dictyostelium discoideum amebas. Biol. Chem. H-S.
	
Satre, M. and J. B. Martin (1985). "31P-Nuclear magnetic resonance analysis of the intrcellular pH in the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 132: 140-146.
	
Satoh, H., et al. (1985). "Oscillations in cell shape and size during locomotion and in contractile activities of Physarum polycephalum, Dictyostelium discoideum, Amoeba proteus and macrophages." Exp. Cell Res. 156: 79-90.
	
Sampson, J. and C. D. Town (1985). "Suppression of cyclic AMP induced cell excitation in Dictyostelium discoideum by inhibitors of eicosanoid oxidation." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 27: 209-213.
	
Sampson, J., et al. (1985). "Quantification of DNA uptake by Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae and the stability of the DNA during growth and development." J. Gen. Microbiol. 131: 3193-3197.
	
Sameshima, M., et al. (1985). The orientation of the nucleus and nucleus-associated body (nab) in amebas of Dictyostelium discoideum during random migration, chemotaxis and aggregation. Cell Struct. Funct.
	
Sameshima, M. (1985). "The orientation of nucleus, nucleus-associated body and protruding nucleolus in aggregating Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Cell Res. 156: 341-350.
	
Rutherford, C. L., et al. (1985). "Compartmentation in Dictyostelium." Annu. Rev. Microbiol. 39: 271-298.
	
Rowe, P. M. (1985). N-methylation of calmodulin (Dictyostelium discoideum, protein). Madison, WI, The University of Wisconsin - Madison: 189.
	
Rossomando, E. and J. Hadjimichael (1985). Characterization of lysyl (n-epsilon- 5'-phospho) adenosyl phosphoamidase activity in Dictyostelium discoideum - cAMP-inhibition and developmental regulation. Fed. Proc.
	
Rosen, E., et al. (1985). Heat shock genes of Dictyostelium. Changes in eukaryotic gene expression in response to environmental stress. B. G. Atkinson and D. B. Walden. Orlando, FL, Ac. Press: 257-278.
	
Romans, P. A. (1985). The Dictyostelium discoideum actin multigene family (DNA sequence, gene expression). La Jolla, CA, University of California, San Diego (UCSD): 232.
	
Romans, P., et al. (1985). "Gene-specific expression on the actin multigene family of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Mol. Biol. 186: 337-355.
	
Romans, P. and R. A. Firtel (1985). "Organization of the Dictyostelium discoideum actin multigene family. Flanking sequences show subfamily homologies and unusual dyad symmetries." J. Mol. Biol. 183: 311-326.
	
Romans, P. and R. A. Firtel (1985). "Organization of the actin multigene family of Dictyostelium discoideum and analysis of variability in the protein coding regions." J. Mol. Biol. 186: 321-335.
	
Richter, H. and H. L. Ennis (1985). "Characterization of a new repetitive sequence in the Dictyostelium discoideum genome." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 242: 16-22.
	
Reymond, C. D., et al. (1985). "Regulated expression of Ras gene constructs in Dictyostelium transformants." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 82: 7005-7009.
	
Renart, M. F., et al. (1985). "Purification and subunit structure of RNA polymerases 1 and 2 from Dictyostelium discoideum vegetative cells." Mol. Cell. Biochem. 66: 21-29.
	
Reines, D. and M. Clarke (1985). "Immunochemical analysis of the supramolecular structure of myosin in contractile cytoskeletons of Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae." J. Biol. Chem. 260: 14248-14254.
	
Reines, D. and M. Clarke (1985). "Quantitative immunochemical studies of myosin in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 260: 1133-1140.
	
Reines, D. (1985). Immunochemical studies of myosin: quantitative and structural analyses (monoclonal antibodies, non-muscle actomyosin, cell motility). New York, NY, Yeshiva University: 168.
	
Redman, K. L. (1985). Actin alpha-n-acetylamino acid protease (protein processing, posttranslational). Iowa City, IA, The University of Iowa: 168.
	
Rapp, P. E., et al. (1985). "A model for signal-relay and adaptation in Dictyostelium discoideum. I. Biological processes and the model network." Math. Biosci. 77: 35-78.
	
Poff, K. L. (1985). Temperature sensing in microorganisms. Sensory Perception and Transduction in Aneural Organisms. G. Colombetti, F. Lenci and P. S. Song. New York, Plenum Press: 299-307.
	
Poff, K. L. (1985). Mechanisms for the measurement of light direction. Sensory Perception and Transduction in Aneural Organisms. G. Colombetti, F. Lenci and P. S. Song. New York, Plenum Press: 251-263.
	
Peltz, G. A. (1985). Dictyostelium myosin in cell motility. Stanford, CA, Stanford University: 108.
	
Peltz, G., et al. (1985). "Monoclonal antibodies against seven sites on the head and tail of Dictyostelium myosin." J. Cell Biol. 100: 1016-1023.
	
Pears, C. J., et al. (1985). "Characterization of two highly diverged but developmentally coregulated cysteine proteinases in Dictyostelium discoideum." Nucl. Acids Res. 13: 8853-8866.
	
Pawson, T., et al. (1985). "Regulation of a Ras-related protein during development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cell. Biol. 5: 33-39.
	
Pavlovic, J., et al. (1985). Changes in the chromatin structure following activation of a single copy gene in Dictyostelium discoideum. Experientia.
	
Part, D., et al. (1985). "The regulatory subunit of cAMP-dependent protein kinase from Dictyostelium discoideum: cellular localization and developmental regulation analyzed by immunoblotting." Cell Differ. 17: 221-227.
	
Parish, R. W. and S. Schmidlin (1985). "A lysine-rich protein functions as an H1 histone in Dictyostelium discoideum chromatin." Nucl. Acids Res. 13: 15-30.
	
Padh, H. and M. Brenner (1985). "The role of enzyme sequestration in the regulation of the adenylate cyclase of Dictyostelium discoideum. Correction 260:8647(1985)." J. Biol. Chem. 260: 3613-3616.
	
Ott, G. and H. Kersten (1985). "Differential turnover of tRNAs of the queuosine family in Dictyostelium discoideum and its possible role in regulation." Biol. Chem. H-S 366: 69-76.
	
Othmer, H. G., et al. (1985). "A model for signal relay and adaptation of Dictyostelium discoideum II. Analytical and numerical results." Math. Biosci. 77: 79-139.
	
Omura, F. and Y. Fukui (1985). "Dictyostelium microtubule organizing center: structure and linkage to the nucleus." Protoplasma 127: 212-221.
	
Okamoto, K. (1985). "Hypertonicity-induced phosphorylation of proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 29: 11-14.
	
Okamoto, K. (1985). "Acquisition process of differentiation competence in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 107: 198-205.
	
Okaichi, K., et al. (1985). Repair of DNA damage in UV irradiated spores of Dictyostelium discoideum during germination. J. Radiat. Res.
	
Okaichi, K., et al. (1985). "Removal of pyrimidine dimers in UV-irradiated spores of Dictyostelium discoideum during germination." Photochem. Photobiol. 41: 649-653.
	
Ohnishi, T., et al. (1985). Caffeine effects on DNA-repair in Dictyostelium discoideum amebas treated with DNA damaging agents. J. Radiat. Res.
	
North, M. J. (1985). "Control of ornithine decarboxylase in the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Soc. Trans. 13: 313-316.
	
North, M. J. (1985). "Cysteine proteinases of cellular slime moulds." Biochem. Soc. Trans. 13: 288-290.
	
Noegel, A., et al. (1985). "Presence of nuclear associated plasmids in the lower eukaryote Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Mol. Biol. 185: 447-450.
	
Noegel, A., et al. (1985). Transcription of the alpha-actinin and myosin heavy chain genes in Dictyostelium discoideum. Eur. J. Cell Biol.
	
Noegel, A., et al. (1985). "Developmentally regulated transcription of Dictyostelium discoideum plasmid Ddp1." EMBO J. 4: 3797-3803.
	
Noegel, A., et al. (1985). Isolation of cDNA clones from a lgt11 expression library that react with antibodies directed against the contact site a glycoprotein, a cell adhesion molecule of Dictyostelium discoideum. Eur. J. Cell Biol.
	
Noegel, A., et al. (1985). "Probing an adhesion mutant of Dictyostelium discoideum with cDNA clones and monoclonal antibodies indicates a specific defect in the contact site A glycoprotein." EMBO J. 4: 3805-3810.
	
Noce, T. and I. Takeuchi (1985). "Prestalk/prespore differentiation tendency of Dictyostelium discoideum cells as detected by a stalk-specific monoclonal antibody." Dev. Biol. 109: 157-164.
	
Noce, T. and I. Takeuchi (1985). "Antigens reactive with prestalk/prespore specific monoclonal antibodies in Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 182: 189-192.
	
Newth, C. K. and M. H. Hanna (1985). "Chemotactic response of wild-type and aggregation-defective mutants of Polysphondylium pallidum." Differentiation 28: 94-100.
	
Ness, P., et al. (1985). Hypersensitive sites, 'topoisomerase' activity and footprints on Dictyostelium ribosomal genes. Experientia.
	
Nerke, K., et al. (1985). Structure and in vivo expression of genes coding for tRNAval(GUU), tRNAval(GUA) and tRNAglu from Dictyostelium discoideum. Biol. Chem. H-S.
	
Nellen, W. and R. A. Firtel (1985). "High-copy-number transformants and co-transformation in Dictyostelium." Gene 39: 155-163.
	
Nanjundiah, V. (1985). "Transposable element copy number and stable polymorphisms." J. Genet. 64: 127-134.
	
Nanjundiah, V. (1985). "The evolution of communication and social behaviour in Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Indian Acad. Sci. (Anim. Sci.) 94: 639-653.
	
Nakahara, Y., et al. (1985). "Prestalk/prespore differentiation of Dictyostelium cells under the conditions favoring stalk or spore cell formation." Devel. Growth Differ. 27: 591-597.
	
Muller-Taubenberger, A., et al. (1985). Molecular cloning and expression of genes involved in early development of Dictyostelium discoideum. Eur. J. Cell Biol.
	
Moore, B. R., et al. (1985). "Changes in the post-translational modification of lysosomal enzymes during development of Dictyostelium." Differentiation 29: 7-13.
	
Mierendorf, R. C., et al. (1985). "Pathways involved in targeting and secretion of a lysosomal enzyme in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Biol. 100: 1777-1787.
	
Mella, E. and B. Fridlender (1985). Transformation of lower eukaryotic cells. England, First Mississippi Corp.; Int. Genetic Sciences. Gb19850012485: 10 claims.
	
Mehdy, M. C. and R. A. Firtel (1985). "A secreted factor and cyclic AMP jointly regulate cell-type-specific gene expression in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cell. Biol. 5: 705-713.
	
Mehdy, M. C. (1985). The regulation of cell-type-specific gene expression in Dictyostelium (cyclic-AMP). La Jolla, CA, University of California, San Diego (UCSD): 145.
	
McRobbie, S. J. and P. C. Newell (1985). "Cytoskeletal accumulation of a specific iso-actin during chemotaxis of Dictyostelium." FEBS Lett. 181: 100-102.
	
McRobbie, S. J. and P. C. Newell (1985). "Effects of cytochalasin B on cell movements and chemoattractant-elicited actin changes of Dictyostelium." Exp. Cell Res. 160: 275-286.
	
McIntosh, J. R., et al. (1985). "Architecture of the microtubule component of mitotic spindles from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 75: 93-129.
	
Martiel, J. L. and A. Goldbeter (1985). "Autonomous chaotic behaviour of the slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum predicted by a model for cyclic AMP signaling." Nature 313: 590-592.
	
Mangiarotti, G., et al. (1985). "mRNA stabilization controls the expression of a class of developmentally regulated genes in Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 82: 5786-5790.
	
Maeda, Y. (1985). "Sporopollenin in the development of the cellular slime moulds." J. Gen. Microbiol. 131: 201-205.
	
Maeda, M. (1985). "Cell-type conversion at low temperature in Dictyostelium discoideum." Devel. Growth Differ. 27: 583-590.
	
MacWilliams, H., et al. (1985). "Two feedback loops may regulate cell-type proportions in Dictyostelium." CSH Symp. Quant. Biol. 50: 779-785.
	
MacDonald, J. I. S. and G. Weeks (1985). "The biosynthesis and turnover of lipid during differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 834: 301-307.
	
Loomis, W. F., et al. (1985). "Adhesion mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum lacking the saccharide determinant recognized by two adhesion-blocking monoclonal antibodies." Dev. Biol. 109: 111-117.
	
Loomis, W. F. (1985). "Regulation of cell-type-specific differentiation in Dictyostelium." CSH Symp. Quant. Biol. 50: 769-777.
	
Lokeshwar, B. L. and V. Nanjundiah (1985). "Intercellular communication in the multicellular stage of Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 30: 15-20.
	
Livi, G. P., et al. (1985). "Lysosomal enzyme inactivation associated with defects in post translational modification during development in Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 30: 83-91.
	
Livi, G. P., et al. (1985). "Regulation of lysosomal alpha-mannosidase-1 synthesis during development in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 110: 514-520.
	
Livi, G. P., et al. (1985). "alpha-Mannosidase-1 mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum: Early aggregation-essential genes regulate enzyme precursor synthesis, modification and processing." Differentiation 29: 207-215.
	
Lewis, K. E. and D. H. O'Day (1985). "The regulation of sexual development in Dictyostelium discoideum: cannibalistic behaviour of the giant cell." Can. J. Microbiol. 31: 423-428.
	
Lewin, R. (1985). Slime molds on the wing. (commentary). Science. 228: 1416.
	
Leighton, F. C., et al. (1985). "Separation of autoinhibitor from cytokinin activity in spores of Dictyostelium discoideum." Lett. Appl. Microbiol. 1: 115-118.
	
Leichtling, B. H., et al. (1985). cAMP-dependent protein kinase during development of D. discoideum. Cell Differ.
	
Kumagai, A., et al. (1985). "Dissaggregation-induced changes of developmentally regulated proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biochem. 98: 1109-1115.
	
Kumagai, A. and K. Okamoto (1985). "Changes of plasma membrane proteins during prespore differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biochem. 98: 1-7.
	
Krefft, M., et al. (1985). "Use of a monoclonal antibody recognizing a cell surface determinant to distinguish prestalk and prespore cells of Dictyostelium discoideum slugs." J. Embryol. Exp. Morphol. 88: 15-24.
	
Kopachik, W. J., et al. (1985). "Selective induction of stalk-cell-specific proteins in Dictyostelium." Differentiation 28: 209-216.
	
Kopachik, W., et al. (1985). "Genes selectively expressed in proliferating Dictyostelium amoebae." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 82: 8540-8544.
	
Kobuchi, Y. (1985). A density dependent model for prestalk prespore pattern-formation in cellular slime molds. Devel. Growth Differ.
	
Knecht, D. A., et al. (1985). "Developmental changes in the modification of lysosomal enzymes in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 107: 490-502.
	
Klein, P., et al. (1985). "Identification and cyclic AMP-induced modification of the cyclic AMP receptor in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 260: 1757-1764.
	
Klein, C., et al. (1985). "cAMP induces a rapid and reversible modification of the chemotactic receptor in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Biol. 100: 715-720.
	
Klein, C., et al. (1985). "cAMP receptors controlling cell-cell interactions in the development of Dictyostelium." CSH Symp. Quant. Biol. 50: 787-799.
	
Kitanishi-Yumura, T., et al. (1985). "Role of the microtubule-microtubule organizing center complex in determination of the cellular locomotory unit in Dictyostelium." Protoplasma 127: 133-146.
	
Kitami, M. (1985). "Motive force of the culminating mass of cells in the developing fruiting body of Dictyostelium discoideum." Cytologia 50: 109-115.
	
Kimmel, A. R. and R. A. Firtel (1985). "Sequence organization and developmental expression of an interspersed, repetitive element and associated single-copy DNA sequences in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cell. Biol. 5: 2123-2130.
	
Killick, K. A. (1985). "Trehalase from the dormant spore of Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Mycol. 9: 108-115.
	
Killick, K. A. (1985). "Alterations in trehalase solubility during development in the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 131: 273-278.
	
Khachatrian, L., et al. (1985). "Guanine nucleotide inhibition of adenylate cyclase in a membrane fraction from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cycl. Nucl. Prot. Phosph. Res. 10: 179-188.
	
Kesbeke, F. and P. J. M. van Haastert (1985). "Selective down-regulation of cell surface cAMP-binding sites and cAMP-induced responses in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 847: 33-39.
	
Kesbeke, F., et al. (1985). "Cyclic nucleotide specificity of the activator and catalytic sites of a cGMP-stimulated cGMP phosphodiesterase from Dictyostelium discoideum." Eur. J. Biochem. 151: 179-186.
	
Kelly, R., et al. (1985). "Dicytostelium discoideum mRNAs developmentally regulated during spore germination have short half-lives." Mol. Cell. Biol. 5: 133-139.
	
Kasbekar, D. P., et al. (1985). "Self-induced nystatin resistance in Dictyostelium discoideum." Antimicrob. Agents Chemother. 27: 974-976.
	
Kanda, F. and K. Sato (1985). "The composition and density of dictyostelid cellular slime molds in different plant communities found at various altitudes of Mt. Me-Akan, Hokkaido." J. Hokkaido Univ. Educ. Sect. II, B 36: 41-48.
	
Judelson, H. S. (1985). Synthesis and post-translational modification of lysosomal proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum (glycosylation, slime mold, differentiation). Madison, WI, The University of Wisconsin - Madison: 265.
	
Jentoft, J. E. and C. D. Town (1985). "Intracellular pH in Dictyostelium discoideum: a 31P nuclear magnetic resonance study." J. Cell Biol. 101: 778-784.
	
Janssens, P. M. W., et al. (1985). "Guanine nucleotides modulate the function of chemotactic cyclic AMP receptors in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cell. Biochem. 67: 119-124.
	
Jacquet, M., et al. (1985). "Sequence analysis of a Dictyostelium discoideum gene coding for an active dihydroorotatedehydrogenase in yeast." Biochimie 67: 583-588.
	
Jacobs-Krahnen, D. (1985). Isolation, partial purification and characterization of a folic acid binding protein from the plasma membrane of Dictyostelium discoideum (in German). Konstanz, Univ. Konstanz: 154.
	
Iwabuchi, M., et al. (1985). "Analysis of the promoter function of cellular slime mold actin genes in the cell-free transcription system." Tanpakushitsu Kakusan Koso 30: 1590-1607.
	
Inouye, K., et al. (1985). Differentiation pattern formation and its regulation in cellular slime molds. Devel. Growth Differ.
	
Inouye, K. (1985). Microfluorometric determination of cytoplasmic pH of differentiating Dictyostelium cells. Devel. Growth Differ.
	
Inouye, K. (1985). "Measurements of intracellular pH and its relevance to cell differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 76: 235-245.
	
Hutner, S. H. (1985). Class Mycetozoea de Bary, 1859. An illustrated guide to the protozoa. J. J. Lee, S. H. Hutner and E. C. Bovee. Lawrence, Kansas, Soc. Protozoologists: 214-227.
	
Hohmann, H. P., et al. (1985). "Cell-free sulfation of the contact site A glycoprotein of Dictyostelium discoideum and of a partially glycosylated precursor." J. Biol. Chem. 260: 13869-13878.
	
Hohmann, H., et al. (1985). Maturation and transport of the contact site A glycoprotein of Dictyostelium discoideum. Eur. J. Cell Biol.
	
Hohman, R. J., et al. (1985). "Inactivation of S-adenosyl-L-homocysteine hydrolase by cAMP results from dissociation of enzyme-bound NAD+." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 82: 4578-4581.
	
Hock, R. and J. Condeelis (1985). Isolation and characterization of a high molecular weight actin binding protein from Dictyostelium discoideum. Biophys. J.
	
Hirano, T., et al. (1985). "Direct implication of surface mannosyl residues in cell adhesion of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biochem. 98: 199-208.
	
Hellio, R. and a. Ryter (1985). "Role of particle electrostatic charge in adhesion and ingestion in Dictyostelium discoideum amoeboid cells." J. Cell Sci. 79: 327-342.
	
Hashimoto(nee Yamasaki), F. and H. Hayashi (1985). "Possible involvement of calmodulin in the induction of phosphodiesterase by cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate in Dictyostelium discoideum." Chem. Pharm. Bull. 33: 3023-3026.
	
Hasegawa, M., et al. (1985). "Phylogenetic relationships among eukaryotic kingdoms inferred from ribosomal RNA sequences." J. Mol. Evol. 22: 32-38.
	
Hammer, C. A. (1985). Dictyostelid cellular slime molds in agricultural soils of S.E. Ohio. Ohio J. Sci.
	
Hagmann, J., et al. (1985). The regulation of early development in Dictyostelium discoideum. Experientia.
	
Hagmann, J. (1985). "Adenylate cyclase of Dictyostelium discoideum: solubilization and Mn2+-dependency." Cell Biol. Int. Reports 9: 491-494.
	
Hagiwara, H., et al. (1985). "Dictyostelium macrocephalum, a new dictyostelid cellular slime mold from Taiwan." Bull. Natl. Sci. Mus. Tokyo, Ser. B 11: 103-108.
	
Hader, D. P. (1985). Computer-aided studies of photoinduced behaviors. Sensory Perception and Transduction in Aneural Organisms. G. Colombetti, F. Lenci and P. S. Song. New York, Plenum Press: 75-91.
	
Hader, D. P. (1985). "Negative phototaxis of Dictyostelium discoideum pseudoplasmodia in UV radiation." Photochem. Photobiol. 41: 225-228.
	
Guyer, R. B., et al. (1985). "Acid DNAse activity from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 826: 151-153.
	
Guyer, R. B. and R. A. Deering (1985). "Apurinic/apyrimidinic-specific endonuclease activities from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 824: 304-312.
	
Gregori, L., et al. (1985). "Specific recognition of calmodulin from Dictyostelium discoideum by the ATP, ubiquitin-dependent degradative pathway." J. Biol. Chem. 260: 5232-5235.
	
Gregori, L. and V. Chau (1985). ATP ubiquitin dependent degradation of Dictyostelium calmodulin. Fed. Proc.
	
Grant, W. N., et al. (1985). "A polymorphic, prespore-specific cell surface glycoprotein is present in the extracellular matrix of Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cell. Biol. 5: 2559-2566.
	
Graetzer, R. and T. W. Morrison (1985). "Effects of 8-methoxypsoralen and near ultraviolet radiation on the survival of the lower eukaryote D. Discoideum." Photochem. Photobiol. 42: 275-279.
	
Gomer, R. H., et al. (1985). "Regulation of cell-type-specific gene expression in Dictyostelium." CSH Symp. Quant. Biol. 50: 801-812.
	
Golumbeski Jr., G. S. (1985). Cellular events and developmental controls involved in the biosynthesis of lysosomal beta-glucosidase in Dictyostelium discoideum (monoclonal antibodies, intracellular transport). Madison, WI, The University of Wisconsin - Madison: 204.
	
Goldbeter, A. and J. L. Martiel (1985). A model based on receptor modification for the cAMP signalling system of the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. Sensing and response in microorganisms (The 13th Aharon Katzir-Katchalsky Conference). M. Eisenbach and M. Balaban. Amsterdam, Elsevier: 185-198.
	
Goldbeter, A. and J.-L. Martiel (1985). "Birhythmicity in a model for the cyclic AMP signalling system of the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 191: 149-153.
	
Goldbeter, A. (1985). "Complex oscillatory phenomena, including multiple oscillations, in regulated biochemical systems." Biomed. Biochim. Acta. 44: 881-889.
	
Glomp, I., et al. (1985). "Cytochemical localization of alkaline phosphatase in the cell membrane of Dictyostelium discoideum amebae." Histochemistry 83: 251-255.
	
Gerisch, G., et al. (1985). "Incomplete contact site A glycoprotein in HL220, a modB mutant of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 73: 49-68.
	
Gerisch, G., et al. (1985). Regulation of glycoprotein expression and cell-aggregation in Dictyostelium. Biol. Chem. H-S.
	
Gerisch, G., et al. (1985). "Early Dictyostelium development: control mechanisms bypassed by sequential mutagenesis." CSH Symp. Quant. Biol. 50: 813-822.
	
Gabius, H. J., et al. (1985). "Receptor for the cell binding site of discoidin." Cell 42: 449-456.
	
Fukui, Y. and N. Imamoto (1985). "A cortical cytoskeleton associated with phagosomes disclosed by a monoclonal antibody against capped membrane of Dictyostelium." Protoplasma 128: 173-183.
	
Freeze, H. H. (1985). "Mannose-6-sulphate is present in the N-linked oligosaccharides of lysosomal enzymes in Dictyostelium." Arch. Biochim. Biophys. 243: 690-693.
	
Freeze, H. H. (1985). "Interaction of Dictyostelium discoideum lysosmal enzymes with the mammalian phosphomannosyl receptor." J. Biol. Chem. 260: 8857-8864.
	
Freeze, H. and D. Wolgast (1985). Structural analysis of oligosaccharides from Dictyostelium discoideum lysosomal enzymes and secreted glycoproteins. Fed. Proc.
	
Francis, D., et al. (1985). "Mutants of Polysphondylium pallidum altered in cell aggregation and in the expression of a carbohydrate epitope on cell surface glycoproteins." EMBO J. 4: 2525-2532.
	
Fisher, P. R., et al. (1985). "Multidirectional phototaxis by Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 29: 43-47.
	
Fishel, N. R., et al. (1985). "Molecular cloning of a cDNA complementary to a UDP-glucose pyrophosphorylase mRNA of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 110: 369-381.
	
Firtel, R. A., et al. (1985). "Extrachromosomal replication of shuttle vectors in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cell. Biol. 5: 3241-3250.
	
Finney, R. E., et al. (1985). "Regulation of protein synthesis during the preaggregative period of Dictyostelium discoideum development: involvement of close cell associations and cAMP." Dev. Biol. 110: 171-191.
	
Finney, R. E., et al. (1985). "A characterization of the preaggregative period of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 110: 157-170.
	
Finney, R. (1985). Characterization of the preaggregative period in Dictyostelium discoideum: a conditional and molecular analysis (cyclic-AMP, development). Iowa City, IA, The University of Iowa: 265.
	
Fatone, M. A. (1985). Purification and characterization of D factor, an aggregation-stimulating pheromone from the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium violaceum. Troy, NY, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute: 101.
	
Europe-Finner, G. N., et al. (1985). "TMB-8 inhibits respiration and cGMP formation in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 79: 151-160.
	
Europe-Finner, G. N. and P. C. Newell (1985). "Calcium transport in the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 186: 70-73.
	
Europe-Finner, G. N. and P. C. Newell (1985). "Inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate induces cyclic GMP formation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 130: 1115-1122.
	
Erdos, G. W. (1985). "Intracellular and intranuclear localization of discoidin I in aggregating cells of Dictyostelium discoideum." Mycologia 77: 308-315.
	
Elwood, D., et al. (1985). mPDE dramatically affects cAMP levels near aggregating Dictyostelium discoideum cells. preprint from Bob Tranquillo: 1-9.
	
Ellingson, J. S. and H. C. Dischinger (1985). "Concurrent disappearance of N-acylethanolamine glycerophospholipids and phagolysosomes enriched in N-acylethanolamine glycerophospholipids as Dictyostelium discoideum cells aggregate." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 812: 255-260.
	
Edwards, C. A. (1985). The chromatin structure of the ribosomal DNA in Dictyostelium discoideum (phasing). La Jolla, CA, University of California, San Diego (UCSD): 137.
	
Earle, J. P. (1985). Identification of developmentally regulated genes of Dictyostelium discoideum using a novel technique: insertional inactivation (transformation, membrane-bound RNA, complementary-DNA). Chicago, IL, University of Illinois at Chicago: 157.
	
Durston, A., et al. (1985). Dictyostelium discoideum as a test system for screening for teratogens. Teratology.
	
Dingermann, T., et al. (1985). Monoclonal antibodies against an alpha-amanitin resistant RNA polymerase from Dictyostelium discoideum. Biol. Chem. H-S.
	
Dingermann, T., et al. (1985). "Characterization of a Dictyostelium discoideum DNA fragment coding for a putative tRNA Val (GUU) gene." Eur. J. Biochem. 146: 449-458.
	
Devreotes, P. N. and J. A. Sherring (1985). "Kinetics and concentration dependence of reversible cAMP-induced modification of the surface cAMP receptor in Dictyostelium." J. Biol. Chem. 260: 6378-6384.
	
Devine, K. M. and W. F. Loomis (1985). "Molecular characterization of anterior-like cells in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 107: 364-372.
	
de Wit, R. J. W. and P. J. M. van Haastert (1985). "Binding of folates to Dictyostelium discoideum cells. Demonstration of five classes of binding sites and their interconversion." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 814: 199-213.
	
de Wit, R. J. W. and B. E. Snaar-Jagalska (1985). "Folate and cAMP modulate GTP binding to isolated membranes of Dictyostelium discoideum. Functional coupling between cell surface receptors and G-proteins." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 129: 11-17.
	
de Wit, R. J. W., et al. (1985). "Relationships between the ligand specificity of cell surface folate binding sites, folate degrading enzymes and cellular responses in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 814: 214-226.
	
de Wit, R. J. W. and R. Bulgakov (1985). "Guanine nucleotides modulate the ligand binding properties of cell surface folate receptors in Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 179: 257-261.
	
De Lozanne, A., et al. (1985). "Cloning and characterization of a nonmuscle myosin heavy chain cDNA." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 82: 6807-6810.
	
de Gunzburg, J. (1985). Etude de proteines cytoplasmiques liant l'AMPc chez Dictyostelium discoideum: caracterisation, purification et identification de luer fonction physiologique. Paris, Universite de Paris 7: 73.
	
de Gunzburg, J. (1985). "Le mode d'action de l'AMP cyclique chez les procaryotes et les eucaryotes, CAP et proteine kinases AMPc dependantes." Biochimie 67: 563-582.
	
Davis, S. J. and J. F. Wheldrake (1985). "The sulphation inhibitor sodium selenate arrests the growth of Dictyostelium discoideum." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 30: 353-358.
	
Crowley, T. E., et al. (1985). "Phenocopy of discoidin I-minus mutants by antisense transformation in Dictyostelium." Cell 43: 633-641.
	
Coukell, M. B. and A. M. Cameron (1985). "Genetic locus (stmF) associated with cyclic GMP phosphodiesterase activity in Dictyostelium discoideum maps in linkage group II." J. Bacteriol. 162: 427-429.
	
Cote, G. P., et al. (1985). "Purification from Dictyostelium discoideum of a low-molecular weight myosin that resembles myosin I from Acanthamoeba castellanii." J. Biol. Chem. 260: 4543-4546.
	
Coe, E. (1985). Cooperativity in the folic acid receptor of the cellular slime mold P. violaceum. Fed. Proc.
	
Chiew, Y. Y., et al. (1985). "Steady state models of spore cell metabolism in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 260: 15325-15331.
	
Chan, S. A. T., et al. (1985). "Dipeptidyl aminopeptidases and aminopeptidases in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 127: 962-968.
	
Chadwick, C. M., et al. (1985). "Stage-specific cohesion of cell ghosts and plasma-membrane fragments from Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 29: 101-108.
	
Chadwick, C. M., et al. (1985). "Coh A, a mutation affecting the post aggregative related (PAR) cohesive system of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Genet. 6: 59-74.
	
Cardelli, J. A., et al. (1985). "Major changes in gene expression occur during at least four stages of development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 110: 147-156.
	
Carboni, J. M. and J. S. Condeelis (1985). "Ligand-induced changes in the location of actin, myosin, 95K (alpha-actinin), and 120K protein in amoebae of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Biol. 100: 1884-1893.
	
Cappello, J., et al. (1985). "Sequence of Dictyostelium DIRS-1: An apparent retrotransposon with inverted terminal repeats and an internal circle junction sequence." Cell 43: 105-115.
	
Cappello, J., et al. (1985). "Structure and regulated transcription of DIRS-1: An apparent retrotransposon of Dictyostelium discoideum." CSH Symp. Quant. Biol. 50: 759-767.
	
Butler, M. H., et al. (1985). The pyruvate dehydrogenase complex in Dictyostelium discoideum. Modulation by molecular interactions (Series: Current topics in cell regulation). R. L. Levine and A. Ginnsburg. Orlando, FL, Ac. Press. 26: 337-346.
	
Brown, S. S. (1985). "A Ca2+ insensitive actin-crosslinking protein from Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Motil. 5: 529-543.
	
Bozzaro, S. and R. Merkl (1985). "Monoclonal antibodies against Dictyostelium plasma membranes: their binding to simple sugars." Cell Differ. 17: 83-94.
	
Bozzaro, S. (1985). "Cell surface carbohydrates and cell recognition in Dictyostelium." Cell Differ. 17: 67-82.
	
Bonner, J. T., et al. (1985). "Successive asexual life cycles of starved amoebae in the cellular slime mould, Dictyostelium mucoroides var. stoloniferum." J. Cell Sci. 77: 19-26.
	
Bonner, J. T., et al. (1985). "pH affects fruiting and slug orientation in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Embryol. Exp. Morphol. 87: 207-213.
	
Bisson, R., et al. (1985). "Cytochrome c oxidase from the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum: purification and characterization." Biochemistry 24: 7845-7852.
	
Bhanot, P. and G. Weeks (1985). "The membrane-bound alkaline phosphatase and 5'-nucleotidase activities of vegetative cells of Dictyostelium discoideum." Arch. Biophys. Biochem. 236: 497-505.
	
Bertholdt, G., et al. (1985). "Carbohydrate and other epitopes of the contact site A glycoprotein of Dictyostelium discoideum as characterized by monoclonal antibodies." Cell Differ. 16: 187-202.
	
Berlot, C. H., et al. (1985). "Chemoattractant-elicited increases in myosin phosphorylation in Dictyostelium." Cell 43: 307-314.
	
Berlot, C. H., et al. (1985). Dictyostelium chemotaxis: extracellular cyclic AMP triggers the in vivo phosphorylation of myosin. Biophys. J.
	
Berger, E. A., et al. (1985). "Regulation of discoidin I gene expression in Dictyostelium discoideum by cell-cell contact and cAMP." J. Cell. Biochem. 27: 391-400.
	
Belintsev, B. N., et al. (1985). Macroscopic control of differentiation in pseudoplasmodium, Dictyostelium discoideum (article in Russian). Dokl. Akad. Nauk SSSR.
	
Belintsev, B. N. and I. D. Yudin (1985). "Emergence of collective behavior in population of Dictyostelium discoideum myxomycetes." Izv. Akad. Nauk. SSSR (Ser. Biol.) 12: 352-361.
	
Barondes, S. H., et al. (1985). "Discoidin I, an endogenous lectin, is externalized from Dictyostelium discoideum in multi-lamellar bodies." J. Cell Biol. 100: 1825-1833.
	
Barklis, E., et al. (1985). "Structure of the Dictyostelium discoideum prestalk D11 gene and protein." Mol. Cell. Biol. 5: 1473-1479.
	
Barklis, E., et al. (1985). "Structure of the promotor of the Dictyostelium discoideum prespore EB4 gene." Mol. Cell. Biol. 5: 1465-1472.
	
Barklis, E. and H. F. Lodish (1985). "In situ localization of actin mRNA in Dictyostelium discoideum aggregates." Exp. Cell Res. 159: 479-486.
	
Alexander, S. and T. M. Shinnick (1985). "Specific regulation of transcription of the discoidin gene family in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cell. Biol. 5: 984-990.
	
Alexander, S., et al. (1985). "The regulation of "early" enzymes during the development and dedifferentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 30: 1-6.
	
Aerts, R. J., et al. (1985). "Cytoplasmic pH and the regulation of the Dictyostelium cell cycle." Cell 43: 653-657.
	
Aeckerle, S., et al. (1985). "Oscillations and cyclic AMP-induced changes of the K+ concentration in Dictyostelium discoideum." EMBO J. 4: 39-43.
	
Zuker, C., et al. (1984). "Dictyostelium transposable element DIRS-1 has 350-base-pair inverted terminal repeats that contain a heat shock promoter." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 81: 2660-2664.
	
Yumura, S., et al. (1984). "Localization of actin and myosin for the study of ameboid movement in Dictyostelium using improved immunofluorescence." J. Cell Biol. 99: 894-899.
	
Yudin, I. D., et al. (1984). "Physical interpretation of the morphogenetic processes in the pseudoplasmodium of Dictyostelium discoideum (article in Russian)." Dokl. Akad. Nauk. SSSR 277: 987-991.
	
Yoshida, M., et al. (1984). "Wheat germ agglutinin binds to the contact site A glycoprotein of Dictyostelium discoideum and inhibits EDTA-stable cell adhesion." EMBO J. 3: 2663-2670.
	
Wright, B. E. (1984). "The modeling approach." Int. Rev. Cytol. 87: 1-17.
	
Wright, B. E. (1984). "Constraints on the models of carbohydrate metabolism in the two cell types of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Theor. Biol. 110: 445-460.
	
Woffendin, C. and A. J. Griffiths (1984). "The effect of respiratory inhibitors during growth and development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 766: 542-548.
	
Williams, K. L., et al. (1984). Analysis of cell surface and extracellular matrix antigens in D. discoideum pattern formation. Molecular Biology of Development. E. H. Davidson and R. A. Firtel. New York, Liss,AR: 75-90.
	
Williams, G. B., et al. (1984). "Modulation of the cAMP relay in Dictyostelium discoideum by ammonia and other metabolites: Possible morphogenetic consequences." Dev. Biol. 105: 377-388.
	
Williams, G. B. (1984). Studies on the establishment of a self-sustaining morphogenetic field in Dictyostelium discoideum (cyclic-AMP, ammonia, metabolite). Pittsburgh, PA, University of Pittsburgh: 113.
	
Weijer, C. J., et al. (1984). "Separation of Dictyostelium discoideum cells in density classes throughout their development and their relation to the later cell types." Differentiation 28: 13-23.
	
Weijer, C. J., et al. (1984). "A frequency difference in optical-density oscillations of early Dictyostelium discoideum density classes and its implications for development." Differentiation 28: 9-12.
	
Weijer, C. J., et al. (1984). "A revision of the Dictyostelium discoideum cell cycle." J. Cell Sci. 70: 111-131.
	
Weijer, C. J., et al. (1984). "Dependence of cell-type proportioning and sorting on cell cycle phase in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 70: 133-145.
	
Weeks, G. (1984). "The spore cell induction activity of conditioned media and subcellular fractions of Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Cell Res. 153: 81-90.
	
Watts, D. J. (1984). "Protein synthesis during development and differentiation in the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. J. 220: 1-14.
	
Wallraff, E., et al. (1984). "Genetic analysis of a Dictyostelium discoideum mutant resistant to adenosine 3':5'-cyclic phosphorothioate, an inhibitor of wild-type development." J. Gen. Microbiol. 130: 2103-2114.
	
Wallace, J. S., et al. (1984). "Monoclonal antibodies specific for stalk differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Differ. 14: 205-211.
	
Wales, M. E. (1984). Characterization of pyrimidine metabolism in the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum. College Station, TX, Texas A&M University: 141.
	
Voet, L., et al. (1984). "An assay for pattern formation in Dictyostelium discoideum using monoclonal antibodies, flow cytometry, and subsequent data analysis." Cytometry 5: 26-33.
	
Vicker, M. G., et al. (1984). "Chemoattraction and chemotaxis in Dictyostelium discoideum: myxamoeba cannot read spatial gradients of cyclic adenosine monophosphate." J. Cell Biol. 98: 2204-2214.
	
Verret, C. R. (1984). "Lipases specifically degrading lipopolysaccharide: Fatty acyl amidases from Dictyostelium discoideum." Rev. Infect. Diseases 6: 452-454.
	
Varnum, B. and D. R. Soll (1984). "Effects of cAMP on single cell motility in Dictyostelium." J. Cell Biol. 99: 1151-1155.
	
van Waarde, A. and P. J. M. van Haastert (1984). "Transmethylation inhibitors decrease chemotactic sensitivity and delay cell aggregation in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Bacteriol. 157: 368-374.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M. and M. M. van Lookeren Campagne (1984). "Transient kinetics of a cGMP-dependent cGMP-specific phosphodiesterase from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Biol. 98: 709-716.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M., et al. (1984). "Competitive cAMP antagonists for cAMP-receptor proteins." J. Biol. Chem. 259: 10020-10024.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M. and R. J. W. de Wit (1984). "Demonstration of receptor heterogeneity and affinity modulation by nonequilibrium binding experiments.  The cell surface cAMP receptor of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 259: 13321-13328.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M. (1984). The processing of chemotactic signals in Dictyostelium. Leiden, Netherlands, RU Leiden.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M. (1984). "A method for studying cAMP-relay in Dictyostelium discoideum - the effect of temperature on cAMP-relay." J. Gen. Microbiol. 130: 2559-2564.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M. (1984). "Guanine nucleotides modulate cell surface cAMP-binding sites in membranes from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 124: 597-604.
	
Town, C. D. (1984). "Differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum in monolayer cultures and its modification by ionic conditions." Differentiation 27: 29-35.
	
Toorchen, D. P. and E. J. Henderson (1984). "Enzyme-inhibitor interactions as a basis for heterogeneity of extracellular cyclic AMP phosphodiesterases in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 802: 413-422.
	
Toda, K., et al. (1984). "Monoclonal antibodies that block cell adhesion in Polysphondylium pallidum: Reaction with L-fucose, a terminal sugar in cell-surface glycoproteins." Eur. J. Biochem. 143: 477-481.
	
Toda, K., et al. (1984). "Monoclonal anti-glycoprotein antibody that blocks cell adhesion in Polysphondylium pallidum." Eur. J. Biochem. 140: 73-81.
	
Tillinghast, H. S. and P. C. Newell (1984). "Retention of folate receptors on the cytoskeleton of Dictyostelium during development." FEBS Lett. 176: 325-330.
	
Theibert, A., et al. (1984). "Specific photoaffinity labeling of the cAMP surface receptor in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 259: 12318-12321.
	
Theibert, A. and P. Devreotes (1984). "Adenosine and its derivatives inhibit the cAMP signaling response in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 106: 166-173.
	
Tatischeff, I., et al. (1984). Inhibition of Dictyostelium discoideum aggregation, influence of pH, extracellular pteridines as pH markers. Biochemical and Clinical Aspects of Pteridines. W. Pfleiderer, H. Wachter and H. C. Curtius. Berlin, New York, Walter de Gruyter: 183-192.
	
Tatischeff, I., et al. (1984). "Extracellular lumazine from aggregating Dictyostelium discoideum cells influence of pH on its fluorescence." Hoppe-Seyler's Z. Physiol. Chemie 365: 1255-1262.
	
Tatischeff, I. and R. Klein (1984). Lumazine formation in the extracellular medium of aggregating Dictyostelium discoideum Ax-2 cells. Biochemical and clinical aspects of pteridines. W. Pfleiderer, H. Wachter and H. C. Curtius. Berlin, New York, Walter de Gruyter: 171-182.
	
Tano, K., et al. (1984). Sensitivity of an UV-sensitive mutant of Dictyostelium discoideum, radC to various mutagens. J. Radiat. Res.
	
Tano, K., et al. (1984). DNA repair mechanism in Dictyostelium discoideum: characteristics of a high radiation sensitive mutant radB. J. Radiat. Res.
	
Takiya, S., et al. (1984). "Transcription of cloned actin genes of Dictyostelium discoideum in the cell-free system." J. Biochem. 95: 1367-1377.
	
Takeuchi, I., et al. (1984). Segregation and migration of cells during pattern formation in a cellular slime mold. Devel. Growth Differ.
	
Takemoto, K., et al. (1984). The origin of prespore vacuoles in Dictyostelium discoideum. Devel. Growth Differ.
	
Szabo, S. P. and D. H. O'Day (1984). "The low molecular weight autoinhibitor of sexual development in Dictyostelium discoideum inhibits cell fusion and zygote differentiation." Can. J. Biochem Cell Biol. 62: 722-731.
	
Stadler, J., et al. (1984). "Monoclonal antibody against cytoplasmic lectins of Dictyostelium discoideum: Cross-reactivity with a membrane glycoprotein, contact site A, and with E. coli beta-galactosidase and lac repressor." Hoppe-Seyler's Z. Physiol. Chemie 365: 283-288.
	
Stadler, J., et al. (1984). "Acylation in vivo of the contact site A glycoprotein and of other membrane proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 172: 326-330.
	
Springer, W. R., et al. (1984). "Discoidin I is implicated in cell-substratum attachment and ordered cell migration of Dictyostelioum discoideum and resembles fibronectin." Cell 39: 557-564.
	
Souicciarini, J., et al. (1984). Isolation and characterization of coated vesicles from Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Soll, D. R., et al. (1984). "A dedifferentiation-defective mutant of Dictyostelium that retains the capacity to aggregate in the absence of chemotaxis." Dev. Genet. 4: 167-184.
	
Simpson, P. A., et al. (1984). "Monoclonal antibodies prepared against Dictyostelium actin: Characterization and interactions with actin." J. Cell Biol. 99: 287-295.
	
Sharpe, P. T. and D. J. Watts (1984). "Cell cycle-related changes in the surface properties of amoebae of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 168: 89-92.
	
Sharpe, P. T., et al. (1984). "Changes in the DNA content of amoebae of Dictyostelium discoideum during growth and development." Biochem. J. 217: 839-843.
	
Sharpe, P. and D. J. Watts (1984). "The effect of tunicamycin on cell-surface changes associated with development and differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biosci. Reports 4: 589-592.
	
Sekimura, T. and Y. Kobuchi (1984). A spatial pattern-formation model for Dictyostelium discoideum. Devel. Growth Differ.
	
Sekeri-Pataryas, K. H. and C. Vakirtzi-Lemonias (1984). "Differential mechanisms for liposome uptake by vegetative and aggregation competent cells of Dictyostelium discoideum." Can. J. Microbiol. 30: 1216-1221.
	
Segel, L. A. (1984). Modeling dynamic phenomena in molecular and cellular biology. Cambridge, U.K., Cambridge Univ. Press.
	
Scrive-Menahem, M., et al. (1984). "Changes in protein synthesis and in RNA polyA+ population after treatment of Dictyostelium amoebae by 5-Bromo-2'-deoxyuridine." Biol. Cell 52: 231-242.
	
Schoen, C., et al. (1984). "Isolation and properties of cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 784: 1-8.
	
Schleicher, M., et al. (1984). "New actin-binding proteins from Dictyostelium discoideum." EMBO J. 3: 2095-2100.
	
Schaller, K. L., et al. (1984). "Differential cellular distribution of cAMP-dependent protein kinase during development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 81: 2127-2131.
	
Schachner, E. and H. Kersten (1984). "Queuine deficiency and restoration in Dictyostelium discoideum and related early developmental changes." J. Gen. Microbiol. 130: 135-144.
	
Schachner, E., et al. (1984). "Specific changes in lactate levels, lactate dehydrogenase patterns and cytochrome b559 in Dictyostelium discoideum caused by queuine." FEBS Lett. 139: 481-487.
	
Schaap, P. and M. Wang (1984). "The possible involvement of oscillatory cAMP signaling in multicellular morphogenesis of the cellular slime molds." Dev. Biol. 105: 470-478.
	
Schaap, P. and W. Spek (1984). "cAMP-binding to the cell surface during development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 27: 83-87.
	
Schaap, P., et al. (1984). "cAMP pulses coordinate morphogenetic movement during fruiting body formation of Dictyostelium minutum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 81: 2122-2126.
	
Sameshima, M. (1984). "Preparation of Dictyostelium discoideum for electron microscopy." Cell Struct. Funct. 9: 187-192.
	
Salzburger, W., et al. (1984). RNA polymerase-III from Dictyostelium discoideum. Hoppe-Seyler's Z. Physiol. Chemie.
	
Rutherford, C. L., et al. (1984). "Chromatographic behavior of cyclic AMP dependent protein kinase and its subunits from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochemistry 23: 4611-4617.
	
Rubino, S., et al. (1984). "Location of actin, myosin and microtubular structures during directed locomotion of Dictyostelium amebae." J. Cell Biol. 98: 382-390.
	
Roos, U. P., et al. (1984). "Indirect immunofluorescence of microtubules in Dictyostelium discoideum. A study with polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies to tubulins." Exp. Cell Res. 151: 183-193.
	
Robertus, J. D. and M. P. Ready (1984). "Ricin B chain and discoidin I share a common primitive protein fold." J. Biol. Chem. 259: 13953-13956.
	
Rifkin, J. L. and F. Isik (1984). "Effects of folic acid upon filopodia of Dictyostelium discoideum vegetative amoebae." Cell Motil. 4: 129-135.
	
Reymond, C. D., et al. (1984). "Developmental regulation of a Dictyostelium gene encoding a protein homologous to mammalian Ras protein." Cell 39: 141-148.
	
Reterink, H. (1984). Model for chemotaxis by amoebae of Dictyostelium discoideum using membrane potential changes for signal transduction. Leiden, Univ. Leiden.
	
Renart, M. F., et al. (1984). "Purification and properties of a cAMP-independent nuclear protein kinase from Dictyostelium discoideum." Eur. J. Biochem. 140: 47-54.
	
Reines, D. and M. Clarke (1984). Quantitative immunochemical studies of myosin in Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Raper, K. B. (1984). The Dictyostelids. Princeton, NJ, Princeton Univ. Press.
	
Rand, K. D. (1984). Morphogenesis in Dictyostelium: time-lapse video analysis, regional changes in pH, and measurements of cyclic-AMP (discoideum). Pittsburgh, PA, University of Pittsburgh: 169.
	
Ramagopal, S. and H. L. Ennis (1984). "Decay and synthesis of ribosomal proteins during Dictyostelium discoideum development." Mol. Gen. Genet. 194: 466-470.
	
Ramagopal, S. and H. L. Ennis (1984). "Conservation and variation of ribosomal proteins in several species of the cellular slime molds Dictyostelium and Polysphondylium." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 805: 300-305.
	
Raethel, M. and C. h. Thielke (1984). "Hefen als futterorganismen fur Dictyostelium. (Yeasts used as food organisms by Dictyostelium)." Naturwissenschaften 71: 267-268.
	
Poole, S. J. and R. A. Firtel (1984). "Conserved structural features are found upstream from the three coordinately regulated discoidin I genes of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Mol. Biol. 172: 203-220.
	
Poole, S. J. and R. A. Firtel (1984). "Genomic instability and mobile genetic elements in regions surrounding two discoidin I genes of Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cell. Biol. 4: 671-680.
	
Pogge-von Strandmann, R., et al. (1984). "An electrogenic proton pump in plasma membranes from the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 175: 422-427.
	
Poff, K. L. and D. P. Hader (1984). "An action spectrum for phototaxis by pseudoplasmodia of Dictyostelium discoideum." Photochem. Photobiol. 39: 433-436.
	
Podgorski, G. and R. A. Deering (1984). "Thymidine-requiring mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cell. Biol. 4: 2784-2791.
	
Pinilla, R. F., et al. (1984). "Short term regulation by lysine of ornithine decarboxylase activity in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 119: 1141-1146.
	
Paul, L. L. (1984). Cell cohesion glycoproteins of Dictyostelium discoideum. St. Louis, MO, Washington University: 168.
	
Pate, E. and H. G. Othmer (1984). "Applications of a model for scale-invariant pattern formation in developing systems." Differentiation 28: 1-8.
	
Palatnik, C. M., et al. (1984). "Translational control during early Dictyostelium development: possible involvement of poly(A) sequences." Cell 36: 1017-1025.
	
Pagh, K., et al. (1984). "Localization of two phosphorylation sites adjacent to a region important for polymerization on the tail of Dictyostelium myosin." EMBO J. 3: 3271-3278.
	
Padh, H. and M. Brenner (1984). Transmembrane signaling in Dictyostelium discoideum: a possible mechanism. Fed. Proc.
	
Padh, H. and M. Brenner (1984). "Dictyostelium discoideum cells do not load the fluorescent calcium indicator Quin-2AM." C.S.M Newsletter no.54: 5-6.
	
Padh, H. and M. Brenner (1984). "Studies of the guanylate cyclase of the social amoeba Dictyostelium discoideum." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 229: 73-80.
	
Ozaki, T., et al. (1984). "Sequence analysis of the transcribed and 5' non-transcribed regions of the ribosomal RNA gene in Dictyostelium discoideum." Nucl. Acids Res. 12: 4171-4178.
	
Oyama, M., et al. (1984). "Development of prespore vacuoles in Dictyostelium cells differentiating in a liquid shake culture." Protoplasma 123: 152-159.
	
Oyama, M. and D. Blumberg (1984). Requirements for expression of prespore and prestalk specific messenger RNAs in the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Ohnishi, T. and R. Deering (1984). DNA repair mechanism in Dictyostelium discoideum - mechanism of dimer associated strand breakage of DNA in UV irradiated cells. J. Radiat. Res.
	
Oberretl, A. (1984). Oekologische, floristische, und taxonomische Untersuchungen an Dictyosteliales in Oesterreich. Innsbruck, Austria, University of Innsbruck.
	
North, M. J. and A. Whyte (1984). "Purification and characterization of two acid proteinases from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 130: 123-134.
	
North, M. J., et al. (1984). "Increase in proteinase activity in the cellular slime mould Polysphondylium pallidum induced by bacteria." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 21: 175-179.
	
North, M. J. and D. A. Cotter (1984). "Proteolytic enzyme activity during Dictyostelium discoideum spore germination." Exp. Mycol. 8: 47-54.
	
Nerke, K., et al. (1984). In vivo transcription of tRNA genes from Dictyostelium discoideum in homologous and heterologous systems. Hoppe-Seyler's Z. Physiol. Chemie.
	
Nellen, W., et al. (1984). DNA-mediated transformation in Dictyostelium. Molecular Biology of Development. E. H. Davidson and R. A. Firtel. New York, A.R. Liss: 633-645.
	
Nellen, W., et al. (1984). "DNA-mediated transformation in Dictyostelium discoideum: regulated expression of an actin gene fusion." Mol. Cell. Biol. 4: 2890-2898.
	
Mutzel, R. (1984). Modification of macromolecules in Dictyostelium discoideum. Konstanz, Univ. Konstanz: 125.
	
Murray, B. A., et al. (1984). "Mutations affecting a surface glycoprotein, gp80, of Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cell. Biol. 4: 514-519.
	
Mullens, I. A., et al. (1984). "Developmental regulation of the cyclic-nucleotide-phosphodiesterase mRNA of Dictyostelium discoideum.  Analysis by cell-free translation and immunoprecipitation." Eur. J. Biochem. 142: 409-415.
	
Morrissey, J. H., et al. (1984). "The timing of cell-type specific differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 103: 414-424.
	
Morris, M. K. (1984). Dictyostelium discoideum chromatin capacity for endogenous and Escherichia coli RNA polymerase, University of Windsor.
	
Meyers-Hutchins, B. L. and W. A. Frazier (1984). "Purification and characterization of a membrane-associated cAMP-binding protein from developing Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 259: 4379-4388.
	
Merkle, R. K. and C. L. Rutherford (1984). "Localization of adenylate cyclase during development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 26: 23-29.
	
Merkle, R. K., et al. (1984). "Localization and levels of cyclic AMP during development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell. Differ. 14: 257-266.
	
Mehdy, M. C., et al. (1984). The regulation of cell-type specific genes in Dictyostelium. Molecular biology of development. E. H. Davidson and R. A. Firtel. New York, A.R. Liss: 294-308.
	
McRobbie, S. J. and P. C. Newell (1984). "A new model for chemotactic signal transduction in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 123: 1076-1083.
	
McRobbie, S. J., Newell, P C (1984). "Chemoattractant-mediated changes in cytoskeletal actin of cellular slime moulds." J. Cell Sci. 68: 139-151.
	
McDonald, S. A. and A. J. Durston (1984). "The cell cycle and sorting behaviour in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 66: 195-204.
	
McDonald, S. A. (1984). "Developmental age-related cell sorting in Dictyostelium discoideum." W.R. Arch. Dev. Biol. 194: 50-52.
	
McDonald, S. (1984). Developmental age-related cell differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum. Age.
	
McConaghy, J. R., et al. (1984). "Reversible inhibition of aggregation-related cohesivity in Dictyostelium discoideum by diffusible metabolites." Dev. Biol. 105: 389-395.
	
Matarazzo, S. Z. (1984). The role of oligosaccharides in cell adhesion of Dictyostelium discoideum. Washington, DC, Georgetown University: 229.
	
Maruta, H., et al. (1984). "Regulation of actin polymerization by non-polymerizable actin-like proteins." Nature 312: 424-427.
	
Martiel, J. L. and A. Goldbeter (1984). "Oscillations et relais des signaux d'AMP cyclique chez Dictyostelium discoideum: analyse d'un modele fonde sur la modification du recepteur pour l'AMP cyclique." C.R. Acad. Sc. Paris, Serie C 298: 549-552.
	
Marshak, D. R., et al. (1984). "Structural and functional properties of calmodulin from the eukaryotic microorganism Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochemistry 23: 2891-2899.
	
Majerfeld, I. H., et al. (1984). "A cytosolic cAMP dependent protein kinase in Dictyostelium discoideum. I. Properties." J. Biol. Chem. 259: 654-661.
	
Maeda, Y. (1984). "The presence and location of sporopollenin in fruiting bodies of the cellular slime moulds." J. Cell Sci. 66: 297-308.
	
Maeda, M. (1984). "Control of cellular differentiation by temperature in the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 69: 159-165.
	
MacWilliams, H. K. and C. N. David (1984). Pattern formation in Dictyostelium. Microbial Development (Cold Spring Harbour Monograph Series). R. Losick and L. Shapiro. Cold Spring Harbor, CSH Laboratories: 255-274.
	
MacWilliams, H. K. (1984). Cell-type ratio and shape in slugs of the cellular slime molds. Pattern Formation: A Primer in Developmental Biology. G. M. Malacinski and S. V. Bryant. New York, MacMillan: 127-162.
	
MacLean, N., et al. (1984). "The nucleus of axenically grown Dictyostelium discoideum: studies on its division cycle and conformation." Experientia 40: 1207-1214.
	
MacDonald, J. I. S. and G. Weeks (1984). "A plasma membrane Mg2+-ATPase in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 235: 1-7.
	
Luna, E. J., et al. (1984). "A membrane cytoskeleton from Dictyostelium discoideum. II. Integral proteins mediate the binding of plasma membranes to F-actin affinity beads." J. Cell Biol. 99: 58-70.
	
Luna, E., et al. (1984). Integral proteins mediate the binding of Dictyostelium discoideum plasma membranes to F-actin affinity beads. J. Cell Biol.
	
Loomis, W. F. and A. Kuspa (1984). "Biochemical and genetic analysis of pre-stalk specific acid phosphatase in Dictyostelium." Dev. Biol. 102: 498-503.
	
Livi, G. P. and R. L. Dimond (1984). "Accumulation of alpha-mannosidase-1 in Dictyostelium discoideum requires many developmentally essential genes." Dev. Biol. 105: 503-511.
	
Livi, G. P., et al. (1984). Developmental control of alpha-mannosidase-1 synthesis in Dictyostelium discoideum. Molecular Biology of Development. E. H. Davidson and R. A. Firtel. New York, A.R. Liss: 447-457.
	
Leichtling, B. H., et al. (1984). "A cytosolic cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase in Dictyostelium discoideum. II. Developmental regulation." J. Biol. Chem. 259: 662-668.
	
Labhart, P., et al. (1984). "A structural concept for nucleoli of Dictyostelium discoideum deduced from dissociation studies." Chromosoma 89: 111-120.
	
Krynetsky, E. Y., et al. (1984). "Complementary directed alkylation of Dictyostelium discoideum DNA complexes with short polyadenylate and polyuridilate alkylating derivatives (article in Russian)." Bioorg. Khimiya 10: 1199-1206.
	
Krefft, M., et al. (1984). "Evidence that positional information is used to establish the prestalk-prespore pattern in Dictyostelium discoideum aggregates." EMBO J. 3: 201-206.
	
Koury, S. and B. Eckert (1984). Further characterization of intermediate filament-like proteins from Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Konijn, T. M. and P. J. M. van Haastert (1984). Cell interactions in the cellular slime moulds. Cellular interactions. (Encyclopedia of plant physiology, new series). H. F. Linskens and J. Heslop-Harrison. Berlin, Springer Verlag: 309-332.
	
Kobuchi, Y. (1984). Pattern regulation model of cellular slime mold. Devel. Growth Differ.
	
Knecht, D. A., et al. (1984). "Antigenic determinants shared by lysosomal proteins of Dictyostelium discoideum. Characterization using monoclonal antibodies and isolation of mutants affecting the determinant." J. Biol. Chem. 259: 10633-10640.
	
Kitanishi, T., et al. (1984). "Disruption of microtubules and retardation of development of Dictyostelium with ethyl-N-phenylcarbamate and thiabendazole." Protoplasma 120: 185-196.
	
Kitami, M. (1984). "Some replenishments with the study on motility changes of Dictyostelium discoideum pseudoplasmodium under light condition." Cytologia 49: 251-256.
	
Kitami, M. (1984). "Chemotactic response of Dictyostelium discoideum cell to c-AMP at the culmination stage." Cytologia 49: 257-264.
	
Kimmel, A. R. (1984). Tightly linked genes with different modes of developmental regulation in Dictyostelium. Molecular Biology of Development. E. H. Davidson and R. A. Firtel. New York, A.R. Liss: 373-382.
	
Killick, K. A. (1984). Compartmentalization of trehalase in sorocarps of Dictyostelium discoideum. Ann. NY Acad. Sci. (First Colloquium in Biol. Sci.). W. N. Scott and F. L. Strand. New York, NY Acad. Sci.: 604-605.
	
Killick, K. (1984). Age dependent modulation of trehalase activity in the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum. Age.
	
Killick, K. (1984). Homogeneous trehalase isozyme I from the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum. Abstracts papers ACS.
	
Khait, A. and L. A. Segel (1984). "A model for the establishment of pattern by positional differentiation with memory." J. Theor. Biol. 110: 135-153.
	
Kasbekar, D. P. (1984). Genetics of nystatin-resistance in Dictyostelium discoideum. Stony Brook, NY, State University of New York (SUNY) at Stony Brook: 95.
	
Kasbekar, D., et al. (1984). Suppression of nystatin resistance in Dictyostelium. J. Cell Biol.
	
Julien, J., et al. (1984). "Expression of a spore-specific gene in Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Differ. 15: 37-42.
	
Janssens, P. M. W. and R. van Driel (1984). "Dictyostelium discoideum cell membranes contain masked chemotactic receptors for cyclic AMP." FEBS Lett. 176: 245-249.
	
Jamieson, G. A., et al. (1984). "Transient increase in intracellular pH during Dictyostelium differentiation." J. Cell Biol. 99: 1883-1887.
	
Jahngen, E. G. E. and E. F. Rossomando (1984). "Intermediary purine-metabolizing enzymes from the cytosol of Dictyostelium discoideum monitored by high-performance liquid chromatography." Anal. Biochem. 137: 493-504.
	
Jahngen, E. G. E. and E. F. Rossomando (1984). "Adenylosuccinate synthetase from Dictyostelium discoideum: effects of hadacidin analogs and binding of (14C)hadacidin." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 229: 145-154.
	
Jackson, D. P. and D. A. Cotter (1984). "Expression of proteolytic enzymes during Dictyostelium discoideum spore germination." Arch. Microbiol. 127: 205-208.
	
Iwabuchi, M., et al. (1984). Control of gene transcription in development and cell differentiation of cellular slime mold. Jap. J. Genet.
	
Ivatt, R. L., et al. (1984). "Glycoprotein biosynthesis in Dictyostelium discoideum: developmental regulation of the protein-linked glycans." Cell 38: 561-567.
	
Inouye, K. (1984). "Measurement of the motive force of the migrating slug of Dictyostelium discoideum by a centrifuge method." Protoplasma 121: 171-177.
	
Ihara, M., et al. (1984). "Purification and some properties of delta(2)-isopentenylpyrophosphate:5'AMP delta(2)-isopentenyltransferase from the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 230: 652-660.
	
Hohman, R. J. and M. Veron (1984). "S-adenosyl-L-homocysteine hydrolase from Dictyostelium discoideum is inactivated by cAMP and reactivated by NAD+." FEBS Lett. 165: 265-268.
	
Hohman, R. J., et al. (1984). "Purification of S-adenosyl-L-homocysteine hydrolase from Dictyostelium discoideum: Reversible inactivation by cAMP and 2'-deoxyadenosine." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 283: 785-795.
	
Hirano, T., et al. (1984). "Cross-reactivity of contact site A to antibody produced against a stage-specific antigen from a phenol/water extract of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biochem. 95: 1355-1366.
	
Higuchi, G. and T. Yamada (1984). "A cinematographical studies of cellular slime molds I. Stalk and disk formation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Cytologia 49: 841-849.
	
Henderson, E. J. (1984). The role of glycoproteins in the life cycle of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. The biology of glycoproteins. R. J. Ivatt. New York, Plenum: 371-443.
	
Hedberg, C. and D. R. Soll (1984). "A low-molecular-weigth factor which stimulates loss of EDTA-resistant cell cohesion in Dictyostelium." Differentiation 27: 168-174.
	
Hanna, M. H., et al. (1984). "Extracellular cyclic AMP during development of the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium violaceum: comparison of accumulation in the wild type and an aggregation-defective mutant." J. Bacteriol. 157: 345-349.
	
Hanna, M. H., et al. (1984). "Developmental regulation of production of an aggregation-stimulating factor from the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium violaceum." Differentiation 26: 97-102.
	
Hammer, C. A. (1984). Dictyostelids in agricultural soils. Athens, OH, Ohio Univ.
	
Hamer, J. E., et al. (1984). "The stage specific inhibition of Dictyostelium discoideum spore germination by the mutagen 4-nitroquinoline 1-oxide." Chem. Biol. Interactions 48: 1-14.
	
Hamana, K. and S. Matsuzaki (1984). "Unusual polyamines in slime molds Physarum polycephalum and Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biochem. 95: 1105-1110.
	
Hagiwara, H. (1984). "The Acrasiales in Japan. VIII. Dictyostelium septentrionalis Cavender and Dictyostelium aureo-stipes Cavender, Raper et Norberg." Bull. Natl. Sci. Mus. Tokyo, Ser. B 10: 159-167.
	
Hagiwara, H. (1984). "The Acrasiales in Japan.  VII.  Two new species Dictyostelium implicatum and D. crassicaule." Bull. Natl. Sci. Mus. Tokyo, Ser. B 10: 63-71.
	
Hagiwara, H. (1984). "Altitudinal distribution of dictyostelid cellular slime molds in Mt. Chokai, northern Honshu, Japan." Mem. Natl. Sci. Mus. Tokyo 17: 47-54.
	
Hagiwara, H. (1984). "Review of Dictyostelium mucoroides Brefeld and D. sphaerocephalum (Oud.) Sacc. et March." Bull. Natl. Sci. Mus. Tokyo, Ser. B 10: 27-41.
	
Hader, D. P. and U. Burkart (1984). "Movement of Dictyostelium pseudoplasmodia in vivo and in mathematical simulation." Plant Cell Physiol. 25: 705-714.
	
Hader, D. P. (1984). Photomovement. Blue light effects in biological systems. H. Senger. Berlin, Springer-Verlag: 435-443.
	
Gustafson, G. L. and J. E. Gander (1984). "Obeta-(N-Acetyl-alpha-glucosamine-1-phosphoryl)serine in proteinase I from Dictyostelium discoideum." Meth. Enzymol. 107: 172-183.
	
Goodloe-Holland, C. M. and E. J. Luna (1984). "A membrane cytoskeleton from Dictyostelium discoideum. III. Plasmamembrane fragments bind predominantly to the sides of actin filaments." J. Cell Biol. 99: 71-78.
	
Goldbeter, A., et al. (1984). From excitability and oscillations to birythmicity and chaos in biochemical systems. Dynamics of biochemical systems. J. Ricard and A. Cornish-Bowden. New York, Plenum: 173-212.
	
Glynn, P. J. and K. R. Clarke (1984). "An investigation of adhesion and detachment in slime mould amoebae using columns of hydrophobic beads." Exp. Cell Res. 152: 117-126.
	
Gerisch, G., et al. (1984). Transduction of chemical signals in Dictyostelium cells. Information and energy transduction in biological membranes: Proc. Int. Conf. Biol. Membranes. C. L. Bolis, E. J. M. Helmreich and H. Passow. New York, A.R. Liss: 237-247.
	
Garrod, D. R. (1984). Aggregation, cohesion, adhesion, phagocytosis and morphogenesis in Dictyostelium - Mechanisms and implications. Microbial adhesion and aggregation. K. C. Marshall. Berlin, Springer-Verlag: 337-349.
	
Galvin, N. J., et al. (1984). "Association of the cyclic AMP chemotaxis receptor with the detergent-insoluble cytoskeleton of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Biol. 98: 584-595.
	
Galvin, N., et al. (1984). Characterization of cytoskeletal proteins in chemotactic cells of Dictyostelium discoideum using monoclonal antibodies. J. Cell Biol.
	
Gabel, C. A., et al. (1984). "Identification of methylphosphomannosyl residues as components of the high mannose oligosaccharides of Dictyostelium discoideum glycoproteins." J. Biol. Chem. 259: 13762-13769.
	
Fujiki, N., et al. (1984). "Control of late development of Dictyostelium discoideum by proteins functioning at early stages." Devel. Growth Differ. 26: 149-156.
	
Froyen, O. J. and F. Langvad (1984). "Occurrence and distribution of dictyostelid cellular slime molds in Norway." Nordic J. Bot. 4: 817-821.
	
Froyen, O. J. and F. Langvad (1984). "Description of dictyostelid cellular slime mold species in Norway." Nordic J. Bot. 4: 503-511.
	
Freeze, H. H., et al. (1984). "Sulfated oligosaccharides block antibodies to many Dictyostelium discoideum acid hydrolases." J. Biol. Chem. 259: 10641-10643.
	
Freeze, H. H. and J. R. Etchison (1984). "Presence of a nonlysosomal endo-·-N acetylglucosaminidase in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 232: 414-421.
	
Frazier, W. A., et al. (1984). "Chemotactic transduction in the cellular slime molds." Cell Membr. 2: 1-40.
	
Francis, D., et al. (1984). "An increase of cAMP-dependent protein kinase during development in Polysphondylium pallidum." Dev. Biol. 106: 478-484.
	
Frame, L. T. and C. L. Rutherford (1984). "Endogenous substrates for in vitro phosphorylation by cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase from Dictyostelium discoideum." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 232: 47-57.
	
Fontana, D. R. and K. L. Poff (1984). "Effect of stimulus strength and adaptation on the thermotactic response of Dictyostelium discoideum pseudoplasmodia." Exp. Cell Res. 150: 250-257.
	
Fontana, D. R. and P. N. Devreotes (1984). "cAMP-stimulated adenylate cyclase activation in Dictyostelium discoideum is inhibited by agents acting at the cell surface." Dev. Biol. 106: 76-82.
	
Flotow, H., et al. (1984). Protein kinases in the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium violaceum: substrate specificity and developmental regulation. Proc. Austral. Biochem. Soc.
	
Fisher, P. R., et al. (1984). Signal processing in Dictyostelium discoideum slugs. Modern Cell Biology. B. H. Satir. New York, A.R. Liss: 197-248.
	
Fishel, B. R. (1984). Molecular genetics and developmental regulation of UDP glucose pyrophosphorylase of Dictyostelium discoideum (complementary-DNA, rescue, enzyme renaturation, messenger-RNA). Baltimore, MD, The Johns Hopkins University: 179.
	
Fechheimer, M. and D. L. Taylor (1984). "Isolation and characterization of a 30,000-dalton calcium-sensitive actin cross-linking protein from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 259: 4514-4520.
	
Fechheimer, M., et al. (1984). Use of a new method for loading macromolecules into living cells to measure the cytoplasmic pH of Dictyostelium discoideum amebas. J. Cell Biol.
	
Europe-Finner, G. N. and P. C. Newell (1984). "Inhibition of cGMP formation and aggregation in Dictyostelium by the intracellular Ca2+ antagonist TMB-8." FEBS Lett. 171: 315-319.
	
Europe-Finner, G. N., et al. (1984). "Inhibition of aggregation in Dictyostelium by EGTA-induced depletion of calcium." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 21: 21-25.
	
Ellingson, J. S. and H. C. Dischinger (1984). "Comparison of the hydrolysis of phosphatidylethanolamine and phosphatidyl(N-acetyl)ethanolamine in Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 796: 155-162.
	
Edwards, C. A. and R. A. Firtel (1984). Chromatin structure in Dictyostelium discoideum ribosomal DNA. Molecular biology of development. E. H. Davidson and R. A. Firtel. New York, A.R. Liss: 361-371.
	
Edwards, C. A. and R. A. Firtel (1984). "Site-specific phasing in the chromatin of the rDNA in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Mol. Biol. 180: 73-90.
	
Dyer, B. D. (1984). Protoctists from the microbial communities of Baja California, Mexico (Sonderia, Sulfuretum, Amoebomastigotes). Boston, MA, Boston University: 179.
	
Durston, A. J., et al. (1984). "A flow fluorimetric analysis of the cell cycle during growth and differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." W.R. Arch. Dev. Biol. 194: 18-24.
	
Duffy, K. T. I. and G. Vogel (1984). "Linkage analysis of two phagocytosis receptor loci in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 130: 2071-2077.
	
Dowds, B. D. A. and W. F. Loomis (1984). "Cloning and expression of a cDNA that comprises part of the gene coding for a spore coat protein of Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cell. Biol. 4: 2273-2278.
	
Dorsman, J. (1984). Adaptatie. Leiden, RUL.
	
Dohrmann, U., et al. (1984). "Transitions in Dictyostelium discoideum behaviour: influence of calcium and fluoride on slug phototaxis and thermotaxis." J. Cell Sci. 65: 111-121.
	
Dohrmann, U., et al. (1984). "Arachidonic acid and related molecules affect the behaviour of Dictyostelium discoideum slugs." J. Gen. Microbiol. 130: 2685-2698.
	
Dingermann, T., et al. (1984). Chromosomal mapping of tRNA genes from Dictyostelium discoideum. Hoppe-Seyler's Z. Physiol. Chemie.
	
de Wit, R. J. W., et al. (1984). "Inhibitory action of certain cyclophosphate derivatives of cAMP on cAMP-dependent protein kinases." Eur. J. Biochem. 142: 255-260.
	
de Gunzburg, J., et al. (1984). "An unusual adenosine 3',5'-phosphate dependent protein kinase from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochemistry 23: 3805-3812.
	
Das, D. V. M. and G. Weeks (1984). "Studies on the unmasking of membrane-bound alkaline phosphatase during the differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum." Can. J. Biochem. Cell Biol. 62: 970-974.
	
Cyr, R. J. and R. L. Bernstein (1984). "Morphological changes and depressed phagocytic efficiency in Dictyostelium amoebae treated with toxic concentrations of cadmium." Env. Res. 35: 66-78.
	
Crean, E. V. (1984). "Synthesis and degradation of dolichyl phosphoryl glucose by the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 792: 149-157.
	
Coukell, M. B., et al. (1984). "Developmental regulation and properties of the cGMP-specific phosphodiesterase in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 103: 246-257.
	
Cordis, G. A. and E. F. Rossomando (1984). Isolation and characterization of a nuclear mtoc complex from Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Cooper, D. N. W. and S. H. Barondes (1984). "Colocalization of discoidin-binding ligands with discoidin in developing Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 105: 59-70.
	
Condeelis, J., et al. (1984). "Properties of the 120,000-and 95,000-dalton actin-binding proteins from Dictyostelium discoideum and their possible functions in assembling the cytoplasmic matrix." J. Cell Biol. 99: 119s-126s.
	
Cohen, S. M., et al. (1984). Transcription of DIRS-1, an unusual Dictyostelium transposable element. Molecular biology of development. E. H. Davidson and R. A. Firtel. New York, A.R. Liss: 491-508.
	
Cladaras, M. H. and A. Kaplan (1984). "Maturation of alpha-mannosidase in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 259: 14165-14169.
	
Choi, A. H. C. and C. H. Siu (1984). Preferential association of the contact site A glycoprotein with filopodia and contact areas of Dictyostelium cells. J. Cell Biol.
	
Choi, A. H. C. and D. H. O'Day (1984). "Calcofluor staining of cellulose during microcyst differentiation in wild-type and mutant strains of Polysphondylium pallidum." J. Bacteriol. 157: 291-296.
	
Choi, A. H. C. (1984). Intracellular and extracellular factors involved in microcyst formation and germination in wild-type and mutant strains of Polysphondylium pallidum. Toronto, ON (Canada), University of Toronto.
	
Chisholm, R. L., et al. (1984). "Mechanism of sequential induction of cell type specific mRNAs in Dictyostelium differentiation." Nature 310: 67-69.
	
Chisholm, R. (1984). Superinduction of the Dictyostelium discoideum cell surface cAMP receptor. J. Cell Biol.
	
Chaney, L. K. (1984). Coating cells with colloidal silica for the isolation and characterization of plasma membrane from Dictyostelium discoideum. Amherst, MA, University of Massachusetts: 122.
	
Chadwick, C. M., et al. (1984). "Dual role for Dictyostelium contact site B in phagocytosis and developmental size regulation." Nature 307: 646-647.
	
Cardelli, J. A., et al. (1984). Gene regulation during early development of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. Molecular Biology of Development. E. H. Davidson and R. A. Firtel. New York, A.R. Liss: 427-435.
	
Carboni, J. M. (1984). The cell cortex of Dictyostelium discoideum: a dynamic actin-containing compartment (biology, motility, cyotskeleton). New York, NY, Yeshiva University: 151.
	
Cappello, J., et al. (1984). "Repetitive Dictyostelium heat-shock promoter functions in Saccharomyces cerevisiae." Mol. Cell. Biol. 4: 591-598.
	
Cappello, J., et al. (1984). "Dictyostelium transposable element DIRS-1 preferentially inserts into DIRS-1 sequences." Mol. Cell. Biol. 4: 2207-2213.
	
Cano, A. and A. Pestana (1984). "The role of membrane lectins in Dictyostelium discoideum aggregation as ascertained by specific univalent antibodies against discoidin I." J. Cell. Biochem. 25: 31-43.
	
Bumann, J., et al. (1984). "Attractant-induced changes and oscillations of the extracellular Ca++ concentration in suspensions of differentiating Dictyostelium cells." J. Cell Biol. 98: 173-178.
	
Brink, M., et al. (1984). Immunogold labeling of microtubules in Dictyostelium. Ultramicroscopy.
	
Brenner, M. and S. D. Thoms (1984). "Caffeine blocks activation of cyclic AMP synthesis in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 101: 136-146.
	
Bozzone, D. M. and E. A. Berger (1984). Developmental mutants of Dictyostelium with alterations in the expression of genes regulated by cell-cell contact and cAMP. J. Cell Biol.
	
Bozzaro, S., et al. (1984). "Regulation of gene expression in Dictyostelium discoideum cells exposed to immobilized carbohydrates." EMBO J. 3: 193-200.
	
Bozzaro, S. (1984). Effects of Dictyostelium discoideum cell binding to immobilized carbohydrates on cell development and gene expression. Biol. Cell.
	
Boy-Marcotte, E., et al. (1984). "A DNA sequence from Dictyostelium discoideum complements ura3 and ura5 mutations of Saccharomyces cerevisiae." Mol. Gen. Genet. 193: 406-413.
	
Bonner, J. T., et al. (1984). "Patterns of glucose utilization and protein synthesis in the development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 26: 103-106.
	
Bonner, J. T. and P. C. Newell (1984). Ch. 5.2 - Signalling systems in Dictyostelium. Developmental Control in Plants and Animals. C. F. Graham and P. F. Wareing. Oxford, Blackwell Scientific Publ.: 297-312.
	
Bogdanovsky-Sequeval, D., et al. (1984). "Characterization and regulation of the expression of a cloned sequence derived fron a post-aggregation regulated mRNA of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biol. Cell 50: 217-222.
	
Blumberg, D. D. and J. F. Comer (1984). Chromatin structure of developmentally regulated genes in the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Biswas, S., et al. (1984). "Overproduction of discoidin I by a temperature-sensitive motility mutant of Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cell. Biol. 4: 1035-1041.
	
Bertling, W., et al. (1984). Nucleotide sequence of two different transfer RNAval genes from Dictyostelium discoideum. Hoppe-Seyler's Z. Physiol. Chemie.
	
Bergmann, K. F. (1984). Cell adhesion and growth control in the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum. Providence, RI, Brown University: 85.
	
Bennett, H. and J. Condeelis (1984). An immunoanalogue of brain fodrin is associated with the cell cortex of Dictyostelium amebas. J. Cell Biol.
	
Bennett, H. and J. Condeelis (1984). "Decoration with myosin subfragment-1 disrupts contacts between microfilaments and the cell membrane in isolated Dictyostelium cortices." J. Cell Biol. 99: 1434-1440.
	
Belintsev, B. N. (1984). "The spatial form self-organization in the development of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Theor. Biol. 108: 123-129.
	
Barondes, S. H., et al. (1984). "Localization of soluble endogenous lectins and their ligands at specific extracellular sites." Biol. Cell 51: 165-172.
	
Barondes, S. H. (1984). "Soluble lectins: a new class of extracellular proteins. (review)." Science 223: 1259-1264.
	
Barklis, E. W. (1984). Regulation of Dictyostelium discoideum messenger-RNAs specific for prespore or prestalk cells. Cambridge, MA, Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT).
	
Bailey, J. S. and C. H. Siu (1984). Regulation of phosphatidylcholine synthesis by cAMP during early development of Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Arnal, F., et al. (1984). "Photostimulation of aggregation in the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium violaceum." Photochem. Photobiol. 40: 519-523.
	
Armstrong, D. P. (1984). "Why don't cellular slime molds cheat." J. Theor. Biol. 109: 271-283.
	
Amagai, A. and M. F. Filosa (1984). "The possible involvement of cyclic AMP and volatile substance(s) in the development of a macrocyst forming strain of Dictyostelium mucoroides." Devel. Growth Differ. 26: 583-589.
	
Amagai, A. (1984). "Induction by ethylene of macrocyst formation in the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium mucoroides." J. Gen. Microbiol. 130: 2961-2965.
	
Abe, K., et al. (1984). "A novel cyclic AMP metabolism exhibited by giant cells and its possible role in the sexual development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 104: 477-483.
	
Zuker, C. G. (1983). Repetitive developmentally regulated genes in Dictyostelium. Cambridge, MA, Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT).
	
Zuker, C., et al. (1983). "A repetitive Dictyostelium gene family that is induced during differentition and by heat shock." Cell 34: 997-1005.
	
Yumura, S., et al. (1983). Mechanism of ameboid movement of Dictyostelium: immunofluorescent localization of actin and myosin. Cell Struct. Funct.
	
Yumura, S. and Y. Fukui (1983). "Filopodelike projections induced with dimethylsulfoxide and their relevance to cellular polarity in Dictyostelium." J. Cell Biol. 96: 857-865.
	
Yeh, Z. Y. and C. Y. Chien (1983). "Cellular slime molds in Taiwan. I." Biol. Bull. Natl. Taiwan Normal Univ. 18: 69-86.
	
Yamamoto, A. and I. Takeuchi (1983). "Vital staining of autophagic vacuoles in differentiating cells of Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 24: 83-87.
	
Wurster, B. and U. Butz (1983). "A study on sensing and adaptation in Dictyostelium discoideum: guanosine 3',5'-phosphate accumulation and light-scattering responses." J. Cell Biol. 96: 1566-1570.
	
Wurster, B. and U. Butz (1983). "Cells of Dictyostelium discoideum respond more sensitively to N10-methyl folic acid than to folic acid." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 18: 139-142.
	
Wright, B. E. and R. Emyanitoff (1983). Metabolic organization during differentiation in the slime mold. Fungal differentiation: a contemporary synthesis (Mycology series). J. E. Smith. New York, M. Decker: 19-41.
	
Wood, L., et al. (1983). "Linked pools of processed alpha-mannosidase in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 258: 9426-9430.
	
Woffendin, C., et al. (1983). "The cytochromes of Dictyostelium discoideum." Compar. Biochem. Physiol. 75B: 53-59.
	
Wilkinson, D. G., et al. (1983). "Synthesis of spore proteins during development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. J. 216: 567-574.
	
Wilkinson, D. G. and D. Hames (1983). "Characterisation of the spore coat proteins of Dictyostelium discoideum." Eur. J. Biochem. 129: 637-643.
	
Whitney, K. D. (1983). An ultrastructural study of sporocarp development in the mycetozoans Schizoplasmodium cavostelioides and Cavostelium apophysatum. Chapel Hill, NC, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill: 118.
	
White, E. P. (1983). Tubulin, microtubules, and a tubulin mutant of Dictyostelium discoideum. Stony Brook, NY, State University of New York (SUNY) at Stony Brook: 136.
	
White, E., et al. (1983). "Identification of tubulin in Dictyostelium discoideum: characterization of some unique properties." J. Cell. Biol. 97: 1011-1019.
	
West, C. M., et al. (1983). "A temperature-dependent block in spore differentiation is transduced intercellularly by Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Differ. 13: 69-76.
	
West, C. (1983). Developmental regulation of a plasma membrane glycophospho-polypeptide, and an underivatized variant, in Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Welker, D. and K. Williams (1983). "Genetic loci associated with altered resistance to microtubule inhibitors and with spore shape in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 129: 2207-2216.
	
Vogel, G. (1983). "Dictyostelium discoideum as a model system to study recognition mechanisms in phagocytosis." Meth. Enzymol. 98: 421-430.
	
Varnum, B., et al. (1983). "An analysis of developmental timing in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 95: 92-107.
	
van Waarde, A. (1983). "Cyclic AMP, folic acid and pterin-mediated protein carboxymethylation in cellulr slime molds." FEBS Lett. 161: 45-50.
	
van Lookeren Campagne, M. M. and P. J. M. van Haastert (1983). "A sensitive cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase assay for transient enzyme kinetics." Anal. Biochem. 135: 146-150.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M., et al. (1983). "Multiple degradation pathways of chemoattractant mediated cGMP accumulation in Dictyostelium." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 756: 67-71.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M. and P. R. van der Heijden (1983). "Excitation adaptation and deadaptation of the cAMP mediated cGMP response in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Biol. 96: 347-353.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M. and E. Kien (1983). "Binding of cAMP derivatives to Dictyostelium discoideum cells. Activation mechanism of the cell surface cAMP receptor." J. Biol. Chem. 258: 9636-9642.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M., et al. (1983). "Substrate specificity of cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase from beef heart and from Dictyostelium discoideum." Eur. J. Biochem. 131: 659-666.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M. (1983). "Relationship between adaptation of the folic acid and the cAMP mediated cGMP response in Dictyostelium." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 115: 130-136.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M. (1983). "Binding of cAMP and adenosine derivatives to Dictyostelium discoideum cells." J. Biol. Chem. 258: 9643-9648.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M. (1983). "Sensory adaptation of Dictyostelium discoideum cells to chemotactic signals." J. Cell Biol. 96: 1559-1565.
	
Tschursin, E. and E. Henderson (1983). Rise in fucosylation of glycoprotein-linked oligosaccharides of bacterially grown vegetative stage Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Tropschug, M. and G. Vogel (1983). Plasma membrane analysis of phagocytosis mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum. Hoppe-Seyler's Z. Physiol. Chemie.
	
Theibert, A. and P. N. Devreotes (1983). "Cyclic 3',5'-AMP relay in Dictyostelium discoideum: adaptation is independent of activation of adenylate cyclase." J. Cell Biol. 97: 173-177.
	
Teta, L. A., et al. (1983). "The role of light and an aggregation stimulating factor during aggregation of Polysphondylium violaceum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 129: 167-177.
	
Tasako, M. and Y. Maeda (1983). "Ultrastructural changes of the two types of differentiated cells during the migration and early culmination stages of Dictyostelium discoideum." Devel. Growth Differ. 25: 353-360.
	
Tasaka, M. and I. Takeuchi (1983). "Cell patterning during slug migration and early culmination in Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 23: 184-188.
	
Tasaka, M., et al. (1983). "Prestalk and prespore differentiation in Dictyostelium as detected by cell type-specific monoclonal antibodies." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 80: 5340-5344.
	
Takeuchi, I., et al. (1983). "Phagocytosis and exocytosis by differentiating Dictyostelium discoideum cells." Plant Cell Physiol. 24: 395-402.
	
Stadler, J., et al. (1983). "In vivo sulfation of the contact site A glycoprotein of Dictyostelium discoideum." EMBO J. 2: 1137-1143.
	
Springer, W. R. and S. H. Barondes (1983). "Monoclonal antibodies block cell-cell adhesion in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 258: 4698-4701.
	
Spiegel, F. (1983). Morphological differentiation of prestalk cells in migrating slugs of Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Soll, D. R. (1983). "A new method for examining the complexity and relationship of "Timers" in developing systems." Dev. Biol. 95: 73-91.
	
Sobolewski, A., et al. (1983). "The induction of stalk cell differentiation in submerged monolayers of Dictyostelium discoideum. Characterization of the temporal sequence for the molecular requirement." Differentiation 25: 93-100.
	
Siu, C. H., et al. (1983). "Involvement of a cell-surface glycoprotein in the cell-sorting process of Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 80: 6596-6600.
	
Shimomura, O., et al. (1983). "Identification of the optical isomers of the amino acids in Polysphondylium violaceum acrasin." FEBS Lett. 155: 155-156.
	
Shapiro, R. I., et al. (1983). "A comparison of the membrane-bound and extracellular cyclic AMP phosphodiesterases of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 758: 49-57.
	
Schwarz, H. and L. Thilo (1983). "Membrane traffic in Dictyostelium discoideum: plasma membrane glycoconjugates internalized and recycled during fluid phase pinocytosis enter the Golgi complex." Eur. J. Cell Biol. 31: 212-219.
	
Schaller, K., et al. (1983). The cAMP-dependent protein kinase during development of Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Schachner, E., et al. (1983). Queuine-deficiency and related alterations of lactate, lactate dehydrogenases and cytochrome b559 in Dictyostelium discoideum. Hoppe-Seyler's Z. Physiol. Chemie.
	
Schaap, P., et al. (1983). "The organisation of fruiting body formation in Dictyostelium minutum." Cell Differ. 12: 287-297.
	
Schaap, P. (1983). "Quantitative analysis of the spatial distribution of ultrastructural differentiation markers during development of Dictyostelium discoideum." W.R. Arch. Dev. Biol. 192: 86-94.
	
Sakurai, N., et al. (1983). Comparative study of the sensitivity of axenically and bacterially grown cell of Dictyostelium discoideum. A3. Jap. J. Genet.
	
Saga, Y. and K. Yanagisawa (1983). "Macrocyst development in Dictyostelium discoideum. III. Cell-fusion inducing factor secreted by giant cells." J. Cell Sci. 62: 237-248.
	
Saga, Y., et al. (1983). "Macrocyst development in Dictyostelium discoideum. II. Mating type-specific cell fusion and acquisition of fusion-competence." J. Cell Sci. 60: 157-168.
	
Rutherford, C. L. and S. S. Brown (1983). "Cell type specific inhibition of cAMP phosphodiesterase activity during terminal differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 96: 296-303.
	
Rutherford, C. L. and S. S. Brown (1983). "Purification and properties of a cyclic-AMP phosphodiesterase that is active in only one cell type during the multicellular development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochemistry 22: 1251-1258.
	
Rossomando, E. F. and J. H. Jahngen (1983). "Solubilization and substrate specificity of membrane bound nucleotide phosphodiesterase pyrophosphohydrolase activities from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 258: 7653-7660.
	
Rossomando, E., et al. (1983). Nucleoside 5'-monophosphate-protein conjugates - synthesis, characterization of the conjugate bonds and their cleavage by an enzyme from Dictyostelium discoideum. Abstracts Papers Am. Chem. Soc.
	
Rossier, C., et al. (1983). Regulation of the mRNA for the inhibitor of extracellular cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase of Dictyostelium discoideum. Experientia.
	
Rossier, C., et al. (1983). "Detection and regulation of the mRNA for the inhibitor of extracellular cAMP phosphodiesterase of Dictyostelium discoideum." Eur. J. Biochem. 133: 383-391.
	
Rosen, E., et al. (1983). "An unusual transposon encoding heat shock inducible and developmentally regulated transcripts in Dictyostelium." Cell 35: 243-251.
	
Roos, U. P., et al. (1983). Microtubules in Dictyostelium discoideum: Immunocytochemistry with polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies. Experientia.
	
Ratner, D. and W. Borth (1983). "Comparison of diffentiating Dictyostelium discoideum cell types separated by an improved method of density gradient centrifugation." Exp. Cell Res. 143: 1-13.
	
Rand, K. D. and M. Sussman (1983). "The morphogenetic sequence followed by migrating slugs of Dictyostelium discoideum during reentry into the fruiting body." Differentiation 24: 88-96.
	
Radosevich, J. A. (1983). Characterization of plasma membrane components of Dictyostelium discoideum. Chicago, IL, University of Illinois at Chicago: 226.
	
Poole, S. J. (1983). The organization and expression of the discoidin I gene family of Dictyostelium discoideum. La Jolla, CA, University of California, San Diego (UCSD): 184.
	
Podgorski, G. J. (1983). Thymidine-requiring mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum. University Park, The Pennsylvania State University: 96.
	
Ploos van Ammel, H. K. (1983). Een assay voor guanylaat cyclase van Dictyostelium discoideum. Leiden?, RUL?
	
Paul, L. and W. Frazier (1983). Production of monoclonal antibodies against developmentally regulated glycoproteins of Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Parish, R. W. (1983). "Plasma membrane proteins in Dictyostelium." Mol. Cell. Biochem. 50: 75-95.
	
Oyama, M., et al. (1983). "Proportion regulation without pattern formation in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Embryol. Exp. Morphol. 75: 293-301.
	
Oohata, A. A. (1983). "A prestalk-cell-specific acid phosphatase in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Embryol. Exp. Morph. 74: 311-319.
	
Olsen, G. J., et al. (1983). "Secondary structure of the Dictyostelium discoideum small subunit ribosomal RNA." Nucl. Acids Res. 11: 8037-8049.
	
Olsen, G. J. (1983). Comparative analysis of nucleotide sequence data. Denver, CO, University of Colorado Health Sciences Center: 177.
	
Olive, L. S., et al. (1983). "Descriptions of acrasid cellular slime molds: Pochenia rosea and a new species, Pocheina flagellata." Mycologia 75: 1019-1029.
	
Ntamere, A. S. (1983). Translational controls of Dictyostelium gene expression. Chicago, IL, University of Illinois at Chicago: 167.
	
North, M. J. (1983). "Solute uptake by Dictyostelium discoideum and its inhibition." J. Gen. Microbiol. 129: 1381-1386.
	
Noce, T., et al. (1983). "Purification and characterization of the extracellular cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biochem. 93: 37-45.
	
Newell, P. C. (1983). Attraction and adhesion in the slime mold Dictyostelium. Fungal differentiation: a contemporary synthesis (Mycology series). J. Smith. New York, M. Dekker: 43-71.
	
Ness, P. J., et al. (1983). "Chromatin structure along the ribosomal DNA of Dictyostelium. Regional differences and changes accompanying cell differentiation." J. Mol. Biol. 166: 361-381.
	
Neave, N., et al. (1983). "The effect of ammonia on stalk cell formation in submerged monolayers of Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Differ. 13: 301-307.
	
Mutzel, R., et al. (1983). "Alkali-stable methylation of a 17000 dalton protein increases during cell differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 19: 71-75.
	
Murray, B. A., et al. (1983). "Monoclonal antibody recognizing gp80, a membrane glycoprotein implicated in intercellular adhesion of Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cell. Biol. 3: 863-870.
	
Morrissey, J. H. (1983). Morphogenesis - Two signals to shape a slime mold. Nature. 303: 203-204.
	
Morrissey, J. H. (1983). "Deficiency in homogentisic acid oxidase activity associated with the brown phenotype of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 129: 1127-1132.
	
Mierendorf, R. C., et al. (1983). "Synthesis of related forms of the lysosomal enzyme alpha-mannosidase in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 258: 5878-5884.
	
Metz, B. A., et al. (1983). "Identification of an endogenous plasmid in Dictyostelium discoideum." EMBO J. 2: 515-519.
	
Meinhardt, H. (1983). "A model for the prestalk/prespore patterning in the slug of the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 24: 191-202.
	
Mehdy, M. C., et al. (1983). cAMP and cell contact regulation of cell-type specific gene expression in Dictyostelium. Gene Expression (UCLA symp. mol. cell. biol., new series). D. H. Hamer and M. J. Rosenberg. New York, A.R. Liss: 249-260.
	
Mehdy, M. C., et al. (1983). "Induction and modulation of cell-type specific gene expression in Dictyostelium." Cell 32: 763-771.
	
McRobbie, S. J. and P. C. Newell (1983). "Changes in actin associated with the cytoskeleton following chemotactic stimulation of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 115: 351-359.
	
McDonald, C. J. and J. Sampson (1983). "The effects of inhibition of protein glycosylation on the aggregation of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Embryol. Exp. Morphol. 78: 229-248.
	
McDonald, C. J. and J. Sampson (1983). "Characterization of the cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase activity secreted during development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 749: 255-264.
	
McCarroll, R., et al. (1983). "Nucleotide sequence of the Dictyostelium discoideum small-subunit ribosomal ribonucleic acid inferred from the gene sequence: evolutionary implications." Biochemistry 22: 5858-5868.
	
Maruta, H., et al. (1983). "Myosin heavy chain kinase inactivated by Ca2+/calmodulin from aggregating cells of Dictyostelium discoideum." EMBO J. 2: 535-542.
	
Mangiarotti, G., et al. (1983). "Different mRNAs have different nuclear transit times in Dictyostelium discoideum aggregates." Mol. Cell. Biol. 3: 1511-1517.
	
Mangiarotti, G., et al. (1983). "Cyclic AMP stabilizes a class of developmentally regulated Dictyostelium discoideum mRNAs." Nature 301: 616-618.
	
Mangiarotti, G., et al. (1983). Cell-cell contact, cyclic AMP, and gene expression during development of Dictyostelium discoideum. Genome function, cell interactions and differentiation (Series: Current topics in developmental biology). A. A. Moscona and A. Monroy. New York, Ac. Press: 117-154.
	
Maeda, Y. (1983). "Axenic growth of Dictyostelium discoideum wild-type NC-4 cells and its relation to endocytotic ability." J. Gen. Microbiol. 129: 2467-2473.
	
Maeda, M. (1983). "Alteration of cellular ionic constituents by external ionic conditions, and its significance in the development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Bot. Mag. Tokyo 96: 193-201.
	
Loomis, W. F., et al. (1983). "Adhesion blocking antibodies against gp150 react with gp80 of Dictyostelium." Exp. Cell Res. 147: 231-234.
	
Loomis, W. F. (1983). "Genetic analysis of cell adhesion." Dev. Genet. 4: 61-68.
	
Lokeshwar, B. L. and V. Nanjundiah (1983). "Tip regeneration and positional information in the slug of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Embryol. Exp. Morph. 73: 151-162.
	
Loidl, P., et al. (1983). Pteridines in Dictyostelium discoideum and Physarum polycephalum. Chemistry and biology of pteridines: pteridines and folic acid derivatives. J. A. Bair. New York, Walter de Gruyter: 897-901.
	
Livi, G. P. (1983). Developmental control of alpha-mannosidase-1 synthesis in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. Madison, WI, The University of Wisconsin - Madison: 261.
	
Laroy, K. and G. Weeks (1983). "Inhibition of Dictyostelium discoideum differentiation in monolayers in vitro by endogenous and exogenous lectins." J. Cell Sci. 59: 203-212.
	
Lamphier, M. S. and K. Yanagisawa (1983). "Induction of macrocyst formation by factors secreted by giant cells in Dictyostelium discoideum." Devel. Growth Differ. 25: 495-501.
	
Kunzli, M. and R. W. Parish (1983). "A developmentally regulated glycoprotein implicated in adhesion of Dictyostelium slugs is predominantly in prespore cells." FEBS Lett. 155: 253-256.
	
Kuczmarski, E. R. and J. D. Pardee (1983). "Actin and myosin from Dictyostelium amoebae." Cell Muscle Motil. 4: 269-316.
	
Krefft, M., et al. (1983). "Analysis of proportion regulation in slugs of Dictyostelium discoideum using a monoclonal antibody and a FACS-IV." Exp. Cell Res. 147: 235-239.
	
Koury, S. and B. Eckert (1983). Identification of an intermediate filament-like protein in Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Kopachik, W., et al. (1983). "Dictyostelium mutants lacking DIF, a putative morphogen." Cell 33: 397-403.
	
Kitami, M. (1983). "Is heat the only factor inducing thermotaxis in Dictyostelium discoideum pseudoplasmodia." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 16: 175-178.
	
Kinsella, B., et al. (1983). Perturbation of vesicular traffic in Dictyostelium discoideum with the amino-acid analog hadacidin - an electron microscopic study. J. Cell Biol.
	
Kimmel, A. R. and R. A. Firtel (1983). "Sequence organization in Dictyostelium: unique structure at the 5'-ends of protein coding genes." Nucl. Acids Res. 11: 541-551.
	
Killick, K. A. (1983). "Multiple forms of trehalase during development in Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Mycol. 7: 66-73.
	
Killick, K. A. (1983). "Trehalase from the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum: purification and characterization of the homogeneous enzyme from myxamoebae." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 222: 561-573.
	
Killick, K. (1983). Homogeneous trehalase from myxamoebae of the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum. Fed. Proc.
	
Kersten, H. (1983). "Alteration of tRNA modification in eukaryotes: causes and consequences." Rec. Results Canc. Res. 84: 255-263.
	
Kelly, R., et al. (1983). Dictyostelium discoideum spore germination specific gene. Fed. Proc.
	
Kelly, L. J., et al. (1983). "Characterization of cDNA clones specific for sequences developmentally regulated during Dictyostelium discoideum spore germination." Mol. Cell. Biol. 3: 1943-1948.
	
Keller, E. F. (1983). "The force of the pacemaker concept in theories of aggregation in cellular slime mold." Persp. Biol. Med. 26: 515-521.
	
Kayman, S. C. and M. Clarke (1983). "Relationship between axenic growth of Dictyostelium discoideum strains and their track morphology on substrates coated with gold particles." J. Cell Biol. 97: 1001-1010.
	
Kay, R. R. and K. A. Jermyn (1983). "A possible morphogen controlling differentiation in Dictyostelium." Nature 303: 242-244.
	
Kay, R. R., et al. (1983). "Purification of stalk-cell-inducing morphogens from Dictyostelium discoideum." Eur. J. Biochem. 136: 51-56.
	
Kay, R. R. (1983). "Cyclic AMP and development in the slime mould." Nature 301: 659.
	
Kasbekar, D. P., et al. (1983). "Use of nystatin-resistant mutations in parasexual genetic analysis in Dictyostelium discoideum." Genetics 104: 271-277.
	
Kaneda, S., et al. (1983). "Nucleotide sequence of Dictyostelium small nuclear RNA Dd8 not homologous to any other sequenced small nuclear RNA." J. Biol. Chem. 258: 10606-10613.
	
Kanda, F., et al. (1983). "Occurrence and vertical distribution of dictyostelid cellular slime molds in Quercus mongolica var. grosseserrata - Betula platyphylla var. japonica forests around the Kushiro Moor." Jap. J. Ecol. 33: 89-96.
	
Kanda, F. (1983). "Composition and density of dictyostelid cellular slime molds in Phragmitis communis communities in the Kushiro Moor and relationship between vegetation and distribution of cellular slime molds." Jap. J. Ecol. 33: 453-460.
	
Juliani, M. H., et al. (1983). "Increased phosphorylation of a ribosomal protein during aggregation of the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 154: 400-406.
	
Jamieson, G. A. and W. A. Frazier (1983). "Dictyostelium calmodulin: affinity isolation and characterization." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 227: 609-617.
	
Jamieson, G., et al. (1983). Transient increase in the intracellular pH during Dictyostelium differentiation. J. Cell Biol.
	
Jacobson, A. and M. Favreau (1983). "Possible involvement of poly(A) in protein synthesis." Nucl. Acids Res. 11: 6353-6368.
	
Ishikawa, A. and H. Ikeda (1983). "Direct transfer of coliphage lambda DNA from Escherichia coli to cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Gene 21: 211-216.
	
Hoshikawa, Y., et al. (1983). "Nucleotide sequence of the transcriptional initiation region of Dictyostelium discoideum rRNA gene and comparison of the initiation regions of three lower eukaryotes' genes." Nucl. Acids Res. 11: 1725-1734.
	
Hong, C. B., et al. (1983). "Thermotaxis in Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae and its possible role in pseudoplasmodium thermotaxis." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 80: 5646-5649.
	
Hong, C. B. (1983). Thermosensing and photosensing in Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae. East Lansing, MI, Michigan State University: 186.
	
Hirano, T., et al. (1983). "Isolation and partial characterization of an aggregation competent stage-specific antigen prepared by phenol/water extraction from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 742: 224-234.
	
Hirano, T., et al. (1983). "Inhibition of cell adhesion in Dictyostelium discoideum by tunicamycin is prevented by leupeptin." J. Biochem. 93: 1249-1257.
	
Hanna, M. H., et al. (1983). "The timing of phenotypic suppression of an aggregation defect by an aggregation-stimulating factor from Polysphondylium violaceum." Differentiation 25: 88-92.
	
Hamer, J. E. and D. A. Cotter (1983). "The timing of ribonucleic acid synthesis during the germination of heat-activated Dictyostelium discoideum spores." Can. J. Microbiol. 29: 1390-1398.
	
Hagiwara, H. (1983). "The Acrasiales in Japan. VI." Bull. Natl. Sci. Mus. Tokyo, Ser. B 9: 45-49.
	
Hagiwara, H. (1983). "Four new species of dictyostelid slime molds from Nepal." Bull. Natl. Sci. Mus. Tokyo, Ser. B 9: 149-158.
	
Hader, D. P., et al. (1983). "Phototactic orientation by amoebae of Dictyostelium discoideum slug phototaxis mutants." J. Gen. Microbiol. 129: 1617-1621.
	
Hader, D. P., et al. (1983). "Responses of Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae to local stimulation by light." Cell Biol. Int. Reports 7: 611-616.
	
Hader, D. P. and U. Burkart (1983). "Mathematical simulation of Dictyostelium pseudoplasmodia movements." Math. Biosci. 67: 41-57.
	
Hader, D. P. and U. Burkart (1983). "Optical properties of Dictyostelium discoideum pseudoplasmodia responsible for phototactic orientation." Exp. Mycol. 7: 1-8.
	
Hader, D. P. (1983). "Inhibition of phototaxis and motility by UV-B irradiation in Dictyostelium discoideum slugs." Plant Cell Physiol. 24: 1545-1552.
	
Hader, D. P. (1983). "Effects of UV-B irradiation on sorocarp development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Photochem. Photobiol. 38: 551-555.
	
Gross, J. D., et al. (1983). "Intracellular pH and the control of cell differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Nature 303: 244-245.
	
Griffith, L. and J. Spudich (1983). Purification and properties of Dictyostelium myosin light chain kinase. Biophys. J.
	
Griffith, L., et al. (1983). Purification of Dictyostelium myosin light chain phosphatase and comparison of the rates of movement of phosphorylated and dephosphorylated myosin. J. Cell Biol.
	
Greenberg-Giffard, R., et al. (1983). "Ca2+-sensitive isolation of a cortical actin matrix from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Muscle Res. Cell Motil. 4: 115-131.
	
Grant, W. N. and K. L. Williams (1983). "Monoclonal antibody characterization of slime sheath: the extracellular matrix of Dictyostelium discoideum." EMBO J. 2: 935-940.
	
Graetzer, R. and R. A. Deering (1983). "Use of the dye Hoechst 33258 to increase the photosensitivity of bromodeoxyuridine-containing cellular slime molds." Photochem. Photobiol. 37: 239-241.
	
Goldbeter, A. and O. Decroly (1983). "Temporal self-organizatioin in biochemical systems: periodic behavior vs. chaos." Am. J. Physiol. 245: R478-R483.
	
Giffard, R. G. (1983). Severin, actin and the cell cytoskeleton (Dictyostelium discoideum). Stanford, CA, Stanford University: 122.
	
Garreau, H. and J. G. Williams (1983). "Two nuclear DNA binding proteins of Dictyostelium discoideum with a high affinity for poly(dA)-poly(dT)." Nucl. Acids Res. 11: 8473-8484.
	
Galvin, N. and W. Frazier (1983). Immunocytochemical localization of discoidin I in Dictyostelium discoideum by fluorescence and electron microscopy. J. Cell Biol.
	
Fukui, Y. and N. Imamoto (1983). Phagoskeletin - characterization of a new cortical cytoskeletal element involved in the phagocytosis of Dictyostelium. Cell Struct. Funct.
	
Freeze, H. H., et al. (1983). "Uptake of alpha-D-mannosidase and beta-D-glucosidase from Dictyostelium discoideum via the phosphohexosyl receptor on normal human fibroblasts." J. Biol. Chem. 258: 8928-8933.
	
Freeze, H. H., et al. (1983). "Structural analysis of the asparagine-linked oligosaccharides from three lysosomal enzymes of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 258: 14874-14879.
	
Freeze, H. H., et al. (1983). "The modA mutant of Dictyostelium discoideum is missing the alpha 1,3-glucosidase involved in asparagine-linked oligosaccharide processing." J. Biol. Chem. 258: 14880-14884.
	
Francis, D. and M. Rupar (1983). "Genetics of microcystless mutants of Polysphondylium pallidum." Dev. Genet. 4: 69-76.
	
Fontana, D. R., et al. (1983). "Role of bulk lipid fluidity in the thermal adaptation of Dictyostelium discoideum thermotaxis." Exp. Mycol. 7: 278-282.
	
Fisher, P. R., et al. (1983). "Spontaneous turning behaviour by Dictyostelium discoideum slugs." J. Cell Sci. 62: 161-170.
	
Fisher, P. R., et al. (1983). "Appendix. Disaggregation of Dictyostelium discoideum cells incubated on immobilized sugars involves negative chemotaxis." J. Biol. Chem. 258: 13898-13899.
	
Finney, R. E., et al. (1983). "Loss and resynthesis of a developmentally regulated membrane protein (gp80) during dedifferentiation and redifferentiation in Dictyostelium." Dev. Biol. 98: 502-509.
	
Finley, D. W. and C. Klein (1983). "Effects of cyclic AMP-containing lipid vesicles on Dictyostelium discoideum aggregation." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 755: 1-9.
	
Fechheimer, M. and D. Taylor (1983). Isolation and characterization of a calcium sensitive 30,000 dalton actin-binding protein from Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Erdos, G. W. and D. Whitaker (1983). "Failure to detect immunocytochemically reative endogenous lectin on the cell surface of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Biol. 97: 993-1000.
	
Erdos, G. and T. Raub (1983). Intracellular localization of discoidin in Dictyostelium. J. Cell Biol.
	
Ennis, H. L. (1983). "Isolation and properties of Dictyostelium discoideum mutants temperature-sensitive for spore germination." J. Gen. Micobiol. 129: 423-429.
	
Ellison, A. M. and L. W. Buss (1983). "A naturally occurring developmental synergism between the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium mucoroides and the fungus Mucor hiemalis." Am. J. Bot. 70: 298-302.
	
Ellingson, J. and H. Dischinger (1983). The metabolism of phosphatidyl-(n-acyl)-ethanolamine in Dictyostelium discoideum. Fed. Proc.
	
Dimond, R. L., et al. (1983). "Secretory mutants in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Meth. Enzymol. 96: 815-828.
	
Devreotes, P. N., et al. (1983). "Quantitative analysis of cyclic AMP waves mediating aggregation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 96: 405-415.
	
Devreotes, P. N. (1983). "Cyclic nucleotides and cell-cell communication in Dictyostelium discoideum." Adv. Cycl. Nucl. Res. 15: 55-96.
	
Devreotes, P. (1983). "The effect of folic acid on cAMP-elicited cAMP production in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 95: 154-162.
	
Devine, K. M., et al. (1983). "Spore coat proteins of Dictyostelium discoideum are packaged in prespore vesicles." Dev. Biol. 99: 437-446.
	
Demsar, I. H., et al. (1983). "Ultraviolet light-induced inhibition of enzyme synthesis during Dictyostelium discoideum spore germination." Exp. Mycol. 7: 95-108.
	
Delaney, S. J., et al. (1983). "Phosphorylation of spore coat proteins during development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. J. 212: 699-703.
	
de Wit, R. J. W., et al. (1983). "Characterization of the folic acid C9-N10-cleaving enzyme of Dictyostelium minutum V3." J. Bacteriol. 154: 859-863.
	
de Wit, R. J. W. and T. M. Konijn (1983). "Identification of the acrasin of Dictyostelium minutum as a derivative of folic acid." Cell Differ. 12: 205-210.
	
de Wit, R. J. W. and T. M. Konijn (1983). Pterins and folates as extracellular signals for chemotaxis and differentiation in the cellular slime molds. Biochemical and clinical aspects of pteridines. H. C. Curtius, W. Pfleiderer and H. Wachter. New York, Walter de Gruyter: 383-400.
	
de Gunzburg, J., et al. (1983). "Evidence that a cAMP binding protein from Dictyostelium discoideum carries S-adenosyl-L-homocysteine hydrolase activity." Biochimie 65: 33-41.
	
de Chastellier, C., et al. (1983). "Membrane shuttle between plasma membrane, phagosomes, and pinosomes in Dictyostelium discoideum amoeboid cells." Eur. J. Cell Biol. 30: 233-243.
	
Das, O. P. and E. J. Henderson (1983). "A novel technique for gentle lysis of eukaryotic cells. Isolation of plasma membranes from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 736: 45-56.
	
Das, O. P. and E. J. Henderson (1983). "Developmental regulation of Dictyostelium discoideum plasma membrane proteins." J. Cell Biol. 97: 1544-1558.
	
Das, D. V. M. (1983). Developmental regulation of alkaline phosphatase in Dictyostelium discoideum. Vancouver, BC (Canada), The University of British Columbia.
	
Coukell, M. B., et al. (1983). "Isolation and characterization of cAMP unresponsive (frigid) aggregation deficient mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Genet. 3: 283-297.
	
Cooper, S., et al. (1983). "Degradation of a cAMP-binding protein of Diyostelium discoideum by an endogenous protease." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 18: 93-97.
	
Cooper, S., et al. (1983). "Reconstitution of a cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 746: 120-123.
	
Cooper, D. N. W. (1983). Functions of endogenous slime mold lectins. La Jolla, CA, University of California, San Diego (UCSD): 109.
	
Cooper, D. N., et al. (1983). "Discoidin-binding polysaccharide from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 258: 8745-8750.
	
Cooper, D. N. and S. H. Barondes (1983). Localization of ligands for discoidin I and discoidin II in Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Condeelis, J. and M. Vahey (1983). Two different actin binding-proteins from Dictyostelium amebas have opposite effects on the interaction between actin and myosin filaments. Biophys. J.
	
Condeelis, J., et al. (1983). Cell cortex of Dictyostelium discoideum during ligand induced capping. Cell Motil. Cytoskel.
	
Cladaras, M. H., et al. (1983). "Interaction of Dictyostelium discoideum alpha-mannosidase with beef liver phosphomannosyl receptor. Effect of alkaline phosphatase treatment." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 116: 541-546.
	
Chung, S., et al. (1983). "A repetitive and apparently transposable DNA sequence in Dictyostelium discoideum associated with developmentally regulated RNAs." Nucl. Acids Res. 11: 4835-4852.
	
Chisholm, R. L., et al. (1983). Regulation of Dictyostelium discoideum mRNAs specific for prespore or prestalk cells. Gene Expression (UCLA symp. mol. cell. biol., new series). D. H. Hamer and M. J. Rosenberg. New York, A.R. Liss: 261-271.
	
Chisholm, R. L., et al. (1983). Cell contact and cAMP induce expression of cell type specific genes during Dictyostelium development. J. Cell Biol.
	
Chang, M. T., et al. (1983). "The effect of light on morphogenesis of Dictyostelium mucoroides." Exp. Cell Res. 143: 335-341.
	
Chaney, L. K. and B. S. Jacobson (1983). "Coating cells with colloidal silica for high yield isolation of plasma membrane sheets and identification of transmembrane proteins." J. Biol. Chem. 258: 10062-10072.
	
Chadwick, C. M. and D. R. Garrod (1983). "Identification of the cohesion molecule, contact sites B, of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 60: 251-266.
	
Cavender, J. C. (1983). "Cellular slime molds of the Rocky Mountains." Mycologia 75: 897-903.
	
Casey, L., et al. (1983). "mRNA half life in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 95: 239-243.
	
Carson, M. and R. L. Chisholm (1983). Isolation and characterization of tubulin clones from Dictyostelium discoideum. Biol. Bull.
	
Bulgakov, R. and P. J. M. van Haastert (1983). "Isolation and partial characterization of a cyclic GMP-dependent phosphodiesterase from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 756: 56-66.
	
Brodie, C., et al. (1983). "Monoclonal antibodies: Use to detect developmentally regulated antigens on D. discoideum amebae." Cell 32: 1115-1123.
	
Brier, J., et al. (1983). "Abundance, relative gelation activity, and distribution of the 95,000-dalton actin-binding protein from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Biol. 97: 178-185.
	
Brenner, M. and H. Padh (1983). "Forskolin does not activate cyclic AMP synthesis in Dictyostelium discoideum in vivo or in vitro." J. Cycl. Nucl. Prot. Phosph. Res. 9: 297-303.
	
Bozzone, D. M. (1983). Cellular interactions during early stages of macrocyst development in Dictyostelium discoideum. Princeton, NJ, Princeton University: 187.
	
Bozzone, D. M. (1983). "A comparison of the macrocyst and fruiting body developmental pathways in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 129: 1371-1380.
	
Bozzaro, S. and S. Roseman (1983). "Adhesion of Dictyostelium discoideum cells to carbohydrates immobilized in polyacrylamide gels. II. Effect of D-glucoside derivatives on development." J. Biol. Chem. 258: 13890-13897.
	
Bozzaro, S. and S. Roseman (1983). "Adhesion of Dictyostelium discoideum cells to carbohydrates immobilized in polyacrylamide gels. I. Evidence for three sugar-specific cell surface recptors." J. Biol. Chem. 258: 13882-13889.
	
Bozzaro, S., et al. (1983). "A plasma membrane factor inhibiting intercellular adhesion in Polysphondylium pallidum." Cell Differ. 12: 109-114.
	
Borth, W. and D. Ratner (1983). "Different synthetic profiles and developmental fates of prespore versus prestalk proteins of Dictyostelium." Differentiation 24: 213-219.
	
Bonner, J. T. (1983). "Chemical signals of social amoebae." Scientific Am. 248 (April): 114-120.
	
Blanton, R. L. (1983). "The spore hilum of Acrasis rosea." J. Elisha Mitchell Sci. Soc. 97: 95-100.
	
Berger, E. A. and J. M. Clark (1983). "Specific cell-cell contact serves as the developmental signal to deactivate discoidin I gene expression in Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 80: 4983-4987.
	
Benichou, J. C., et al. (1983). "Cytochemical study of the nucleolus of the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Ultrastruct. Res. 84: 60-66.
	
Bazari, W. L. (1983). Studies on calmodulin from Dictyostelium discoideum. New York, NY, Yeshiva University: 157.
	
Barondes, S. H., et al. (1983). "Discoidin I and discoidin II are localized differently in developing Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Biol. 96: 291-296.
	
Barklis, E. and H. F. Lodish (1983). "Regulation of Dictyostelium discoideum mRNAs specific for prespore or prestalk cells." Cell 32: 1139-1148.
	
Barclay, S. L. and E. Meller (1983). "Efficient transformation of Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae." Mol. Cell. Biol. 3: 2117-2130.
	
Bai, R. L. (1983). "A study on some species of Acrasiomycetes in China [Dictyostelium, Polysphondylium in China]." Acta Mycol. Sinica 2: 173-178.
	
Amagai, A., et al. (1983). "Cell differentiation in a temperature-sensitive stalkless mutant of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Embryol. Exp. Morphol. 74: 235-243.
	
Alexander, S., et al. (1983). "Mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum blocked in expression of all members of the developmentally regulated discoidin multigene family." Cell 34: 467-475.
	
Alexander, S., et al. (1983). "Ion dependence of the discoidin I lectin from Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 24: 209-212.
	
Alexander, S. (1983). The life and times of the cellular slime molds (book review of: The development of the cellular slime molds, by W.F. Loomis). Cell. 34: 703-704.
	
Akalehiywot, T. and C. H. Siu (1983). "Phosphorylation of spore coat proteins of Dictyostelium discoideum." Can. J. Biochem. Cell Biol. 61: 996-1001.
	
Abe, K. and K. Yanagisawa (1983). "A new class of rapidly developing mutants in Dictyostelium discoideum: Implications for cyclic AMP metabolism and cell differentiation." Dev. Biol. 95: 200-210.
	
Abe, K., et al. (1983). "Genetic analysis of a gene regulating the timing of developmental events in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 129: 1623-1628.
	
Zero, K. M. (1982). The dynamics of rodlike molecules in solution (PBLG, myosin). Stanford, CA, Stanford University: 133.
	
Yumura, S. and Y. Fukui (1982). The cytoskeletal system and cell polarity in Dictyostelium amebas. Cell Struct. Funct.
	
Yamasaki, F. and H. Hayashi (1982). "Participation of calcium in the induction of phosphodiesterase by cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biochem. 92: 1911-1917.
	
Yamasaki, F. and H. Hayashi (1982). "Comparison of properties of the cellular and extracellular phosphodiesterases induced by cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biochem. 91: 981-988.
	
Yamamoto, K., et al. (1982). "Mechanism of interaction of Dictyostelium severin with actin filaments." J. Cell Biol. 95: 711-719.
	
Yamamoto, A. and I. Takeuchi (1982). Pattern regeneration in the slug of Dictyostelium discoideum. Devel. Growth Differ.
	
Yamada, H., et al. (1982). "Effect of tunicamycin on cell adhesion and biosynthesis of glycoproteins in aggregation-competent cells of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biochem. 92: 399-406.
	
Yagura, T., et al. (1982). "Synchronous alterations of RNA synthesis and DNA-dependent RNA polymerase activities during development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Plant Cell Physiol. 23: 237-247.
	
Wurster, B. and U. Butz (1982). A study on sensing and adaptation in Dictyostelium discoideum. Hoppe-Seyler's Z. Physiol. Chemie.
	
Wurster, B. (1982). "On induction of cell differentiation by cyclic AMP pulses in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biophys. Struct. Mech. 9: 137-143.
	
Wright, B. E., et al. (1982). "Metabolic compartments in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 259: 7587-7594.
	
Woffendin, C. and A. J. Griffiths (1982). "The differentiation responses of Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae at various times during synchronous growth." J. Gen. Microbiol. 128: 2449-2452.
	
Williams, K. L. (1982). Molecules involved in morphogenesis in the multicellular stage of Dictyostelium discoideum. Colloquium Mosbach 1982 - Biochemistry of differentiation and morphology. L. Jaenicke. Berlin, Heidelberg, New York, Springer-Verlag. 33: 231-246.
	
Williams, K. (1982). Morphogenetic molecules in the multicellular stage of Dictyostelium discoideum. Hoppe-Seyler's Z. Physiol. Chemie.
	
White, E. and E. Katz (1982). The identification of Dictyostelium tubulin on two-dimensional gels. J. Cell Biol.
	
Whitaker, D., et al. (1982). Failure to detect immunoreactive cell surface discoidins in Dictyostelium. J. Cell Biol.
	
West, C. M., et al. (1982). "A temperature-dependent choice in cell differentiation." Differentiation 23: 91-102.
	
Welker, D. L. and K. L. Williams (1982). "Genetic analysis and phenotypic characterization of effects on the cytoskeleton of coumarin-sensitivity mutations in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 128: 1329-1343.
	
Welker, D. L. and K. L. Williams (1982). "A genetic map of Dictyostelium discoideum based on mitotic recombination." Genetics 102: 691-710.
	
Welker, D. L. and K. L. Williams (1982). "Chromosome rearrangements in Dictyostelium discoideum." Genetics 102: 711-723.
	
Welker, D. L. (1982). Coumarin and antimicrotubule agents as probes of microtubule function in Dictyostelium discoideum. Microtubules in microorganisms (Microbiology series). P. Cappuccinelli and N. R. Morris. New York, Marcel Dekker: 99-108.
	
Weinert, T. A. and P. Cappuccinelli (1982). A novel tubulin inactivating protein from Dictyostelium discoideum. Microtubules in microorganisms (Microbiology series). P. Cappuccinelli and N. R. Morris. New York, Dekker: 129-141.
	
Weinert, T., et al. (1982). "Potent microtubule inhibitor protein from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochemistry 21: 782-789.
	
Weiner, A. M. and H. S. Emery (1982). The rDNA of Dictyostelium discoideum and Physarum polycephalum. The Cell Nucleus. rDNA, part A. H. Busch and L. Rothblum. New York, Ac. Press: 127-143.
	
Weeks, G. (1982). "The induction of spore cells in vitro by membranes of Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Cell Res. 137: 301-308.
	
Watanabe, N. and Y. Hashimoto (1982). The study of aggregation mechanism of Dictyostelium discoideum. Devel. Growth Differ.
	
Wallace, J. S. and P. C. Newell (1982). "Stimulation of mitotic recombination in Dictyostelium discoideum by ultraviolet irradiation." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 14: 37-41.
	
Wallace, J. S. and P. C. Newell (1982). "Genetic analysis by mitotic recombination in Dictyostelium discoideum of growth and developmental loci on linkage group VII." J. Gen. Microbiol. 128: 953-964.
	
Wales, M. E. and J. R. Wild (1982). The inter relationship of arginine catabolism and pyrimidine biosynthesis in the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum. Tex. J. Sci.
	
Waddell, D. R. (1982). "A predatory slime mould." Nature 298: 464-466.
	
Waddell, D. R. (1982). "The spatial pattern of aggregation centres in the cellular slime mould." J. Embryol. Exp. Morph. 70: 75-98.
	
Verret, C. R., et al. (1982). "Fatty acyl amidases from Dictyostelium discoideum that act on lipopolysaccharide and derivatives. II. Aspects of substrate specificity." J. Biol. Chem. 257: 10228-10234.
	
Verret, C. R., et al. (1982). "Fatty acyl amidases from Dictyostelium discoideum that act on lipopolysaccharide and derivatives I. Partial purification and properties." J. Biol. Chem. 257: 10222-10227.
	
Verret, C. J. R. (1982). Fatty acyl amidases from slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum specific for bacterial lipopolysaccharide. Cambridge, MA, Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT).
	
van Waarde, A. (1982). "Rapid, transient methylation of four proteins in aggregative amoebae of Dictyostelium discoideum as a response to stimulation with cyclic AMP." FEBS Lett. 149: 266-270.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M., et al. (1982). "Specificity of the cyclic GMP-binding activity and of a cyclic GMP-dependent cyclic GMP phosphodiesterase in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cell. Endocrinol. 25: 171-182.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M., et al. (1982). "Non equilibrium kinetics of a cGMP-binding protein in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Biol. 94: 271-278.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M., et al. (1982). "Altered cGMP phosphodiesterase activity in chemotactic mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 147: 149-152.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M., et al. (1982). "Evidence for a messenger function of cGMP during phosphodiesterase induction in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Bacteriol. 152: 232-238.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M. and T. M. Konijn (1982). "Signal transduction in the cellular slime molds." Mol. Cell. Endocrinol. 26: 1-17.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M., et al. (1982). "Analogs of cyclic AMP as chemoattractant and inhibitors of Dictyostelium chemotaxis." J. Bacteriol. 149: 99-105.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M., et al. (1982). "Antagonists of chemoattractants reveal separate receptors for cAMP, folic acid and pterin in Dictyostelium." Exp. Cell Res. 140: 453-456.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M., et al. (1982). "Identification of a pterin as the acrasin of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium lacteum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 79: 6270-6274.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M., et al. (1982). "Phosphodiesterase induction in Dictyostelium discoideum by inhibition of extracellular phosphodiesterase activity." Dev. Biol. 94: 240-245.
	
van Driel, R. (1982). Cyclic nucleotides as first messengers. Handbook of experimental pharmacology. Vol. 58/II. Cyclic nucleotides. Part II: Physiology and pharmacology. J. W. Kebabian and J. A. Nathanson. Berlin, Springer-Verlag: 365-386.
	
van der Boon, J. (1982). Chemoreceptie bij de Acrasieae opzuivering met behulp van HPLC van de specifieke attractant (acrasine) van Dictyostelium lacteum. Leiden, RUL.
	
van Battum, W. J. (1982). cAMP-oscillaties in cellen van de slijmschimmel Dictyostelium discoideum. Leiden, R.U. Leiden: 1-53.
	
Vahey, M. and J. Condeelis (1982). Properties of 120K and 95K actin binding proteins from Dictyostelium and solation-contraction coupling. J. Cell Biol.
	
Tsang, A. S., et al. (1982). "Cell-type-specific actin mRNA populations in Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell 31: 375-382.
	
Troutt, A., et al. (1982). "Secondary structure of Bombyx mori and Dictyostelium discoideum 5S rRNA from S1 nuclease and cobra venom ribonuclease susceptibility, and computer assisted analysis." Nucl. Acids Res. 10: 653-664.
	
Taylor, D. L., et al. (1982). "Cellular and molecular aspects of amoeboid movement." CSH Symp. Quant. Biol. 46: 101-111.
	
Taylor, D. L. and M. Fechheimer (1982). "Cytoplasmic structure and contractility: the solation-contraction coupling hypothesis." Phil. Trans. R. Soc. Lond. B 299: 185-197.
	
Tatischeff, I., et al. (1982). "Fluorescent products secreted by Dictyostelium discoideum cells which are able to aggregate." FEBS Lett. 138: 265-269.
	
Tano, K., et al. (1982). UV endonuclease activity of Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Radiat. Res.
	
Takeuchi, I., et al. (1982). Pattern formation in the development of Dictyostelium discoideum. Embryonic Development. Part B. Cellular aspects. M. M. Burger and R. Weber. New York, A.R. Liss: 283-294.
	
Szabo, S. P., et al. (1982). "Cell fusion, nuclear fusion, and zygote differentiation during sexual development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 90: 375-382.
	
Swanson, J. A. and D. L. Taylor (1982). "Local and spatially coordinated movements in Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae during chemotaxis." Cell 28: 225-232.
	
Swanson, J. A. (1982). The spatial organization of cytoplasm during amoeboid chemotaxis. Princeton, NJ, Princeton University: 107.
	
Sussman, M. (1982). Morphogenetic signaling, cytodifferentiation, and gene expression. The development of Dictyostelium discoideum. W. F. Loomis. New York, Ac. Press: 353-385.
	
Sternfeld, J. and C. N. David (1982). "Fate and regulation of anterior-like cells in Dictyostelium slugs." Dev. Biol. 93: 111-118.
	
Stadler, J., et al. (1982). "Improved purification and N-terminal amimo acid sequence determination of the contact site A glycoprotein of Dictyostelium discoideum." Hoppe-Seyler's Z. Physiol. Chemie 363: 771-776.
	
Spudich, J. A. and A. Spudich (1982). Cell motility. The development of Dictyostelium discoideum. W. F. Loomis. New York, Ac. Press: 169-194.
	
Spudich, J. A., et al. (1982). "Actin and myosin: control of filament assembly." Phil. Trans. R. Soc. Lond. B 299: 247-261.
	
Spudich, J. A. (1982). "Dictyostelium discoideum: methods and perspectives for study of cell motility." Meth. Cell Biol. 25: 359-364.
	
Springer, W. R. and S. H. Barondes (1982). "Evidence for another cell-adhesion molecule in Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 79: 6561-6565.
	
Springer, W. R. and S. H. Barondes (1982). "Externalization of the endogenous intracellular lectin of a cellular slime mold." Exp. Cell Res. 138: 231-240.
	
Soll, D. R. and L. H. Mitchell (1982). "Differentiation and dedifferentiation can function simultaneously and independently in the same cells in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 91: 183-190.
	
Smith, E., et al. (1982). "Sensory behaviour in Dictyostelium discoideum slugs: phototaxis and thermotaxis are not mediated by a change in slug speed." J. Cell Sci. 54: 329-339.
	
Simpson, P. A., et al. (1982). Monoclonal antibodies against Dictyostelium actin. J. Cell Biol.
	
Shiozawa, J., et al. (1982). Actin interaction with plasma-membrane proteins of Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Shimomura, O., et al. (1982). "Chemical identity of the acrasin of the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium violaceum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 79: 7376-7379.
	
Sharpe, P. T., et al. (1982). "Studies of early stages of differentiation of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Embryol. Exp. Morph. 67: 181-193.
	
Schneider, M. J., et al. (1982). "Mutants of thermotaxis in Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Cell Res. 140: 411-416.
	
Schmidt, J. A. and J. L. Stirling (1982). "Developmentally regulated enzymes and cyclic AMP-binding sites in Dictyostelium discoideum cells blocked during development by alpha-chymotrypsin." Biochem. J. 206: 185-193.
	
Schmidt, J. A. and W. F. Loomis (1982). "Phosphorylation of the contact site A glycoprotein (gp80) of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 91: 296-304.
	
Schachner, E., et al. (1982). Development of Dictyostelium discoideum in the presence and absence of queuine and the queuine family of tRNAs. Hoppe-Seyler's Z. Physiol. Chemie.
	
Schaap, P., et al. (1982). "Early recognition of prespore differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum and its significance for models on patterns formation." Differentiation 22: 1-5.
	
Saxe III, C. L. and M. Sussman (1982). Induction of stage specific cell cohesion by a membrane-associated moiety in Dictyostelium discoideum. Fed. Proc.
	
Saxe III, C. L. and M. Sussman (1982). "Induction of stage-specific cell cohesion in Dictyostelium discoideum by a plasma membrane associated moiety reactive with wheat germ agglutinin." Cell 29: 755-759.
	
Sameshima, M. and A. Tanaka (1982). Scanning and transmission electron microscopic study of aggregating Dictyostelium discoideum. Cell Struct. Funct.
	
Saga, Y. and K. Yanagisawa (1982). "Macrocyst development in Dictyostelium discoideum. I. Induction of synchronous development by giant cells and biochemical analysis." J. Cell Sci. 55: 341-352.
	
Ryter, A., et al. (1982). Membrane traffic between plasma-membrane, phagosomes and pinosomes in Dictyostelium discoideum ameboid cells. Biol. Cell.
	
Rutherford, C. L., et al. (1982). "Cellular pattern formation: Dictyostelium discoideum as a system for a biochemical approach." TIBS 7: 108-111.
	
Rutherford, C. L., et al. (1982). "A cyclic AMP dependent protein kinase in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 108: 1210-1220.
	
Rubino, S., et al. (1982). "Effect of microtubule inhibitors on the tubulin system of Dictyostelium discoideum." Zeitschr. Allgem. Mikrobiol. 22: 127-131.
	
Rossomando, E. F. and E. G. Jahngen (1982). "Permeability of Dictyostelium discoideum to fucose and uracil following growth-arrest induced by starvation, hadacidin and cerulenin." Differentiation 23: 13-16.
	
Rossler, H. H., et al. (1982). "A differentiation-dependent polyisoprenol kinase in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cell. Biochem. 48: 183-189.
	
Roos, U. P. (1982). Morphological and experimental studies on the cytocenter of cellular slime molds. Microtubules in microorganisms (Microbiology series). P. Cappuccinelli and N. R. Morris. New York, Marcel Dekker: 51-69.
	
Roos, U. (1982). Cytochemistry of nucleic acids in Dictyostelium discoideum. Experientia.
	
Risse, H. J. and H. H. Rossler (1982). Glycosyltransferases in the differentiation of slime molds. The Glycoconjugates. Glycoproteins, Glycolipids, and Proteoglycans, Part A. M. I. Horowitz. New York, Ac. Press: 135-143.
	
Risse, H., et al. (1982). The glycosylation of polyisoprenols in Dictyostelium membranes. Hoppe Seyler's Z. Physiol. Chem.
	
Rickwood, D. (1982). ADP-ribosylation in the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. ADP-ribosylation reactions: biology and medicine. O. Hayashi and K. Ueda. New York, Ac. Press: 253-262.
	
Renart, M., et al. (1982). Properties and subunit composition of RNA polymerase I from Dictyostelium discoideum. Biol. Cell.
	
Ray, J., et al. (1982). Genetics and biochemistry of cell recognition molecules in Dictyostelium discoideum. Cellular Recognition. W. A. Frazier, L. Glaser and D. I. Gottlieb. New York, A.R. Liss: 789-793.
	
Ray, J. and R. A. Lerner (1982). "A biological active receptor for the carbohydrate-binding protein(s) of Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell 28: 91-98.
	
Ramagopal, S. and H. L. Ennis (1982). "Ribosomal protein synthesis during spore germination and vegetative growth in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 257: 1025-1031.
	
Poole, S., et al. (1982). Expression of the discoidin I genes in Dictyostelium. Cellular Recognition. W. A. Frazier, L. Glaser and D. I. Gottlieb. New York, A.R. Liss: 795-803.
	
Paterno, G. D. and D. H. O'Day (1982). "Differentiation in roller tube cultures of wild-type and two cyclic AMP mutant strains of the cellular slime mould Polysphondylium pallidum." Can. J. Microbiol. 28: 1143-1149.
	
Pannell, R., et al. (1982). Biosynthesis and sorting of alpha-mannosidase forms by Dictyostelium discoideum. Fed. Proc.
	
Pannel, R., et al. (1982). "Processing and secretion of alpha-mannosidase forms by Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 257: 9861-9865.
	
Pagh, K., et al. (1982). Monoclonal antibodies to Dictyostelium myosin as tools for studying chemotactic movement. J. Muscle Res. Cell Motil.
	
Oyama, M., et al. (1982). Effects of ammonia on contact formation and differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum. Devel. Growth Differ.
	
Oyama, M., et al. (1982). "Effects of cyclic AMP on contact formation and differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 56: 223-232.
	
Ott, G., et al. (1982). Dictyostelium discoideum: a model system to evaluate the function of queunine and of the queunine family of transfer RNAs. Hoppe Seyler's Z. Physiol. Chem.
	
Ott, G., et al. (1982). "Dictyostelium discoideum: A useful model system to evaluate the function of queuine and the Q-family of tRNAs." FEBS Lett. 146: 311-314.
	
Olsen, G. J. and M. L. Sogin (1982). "Nucleotide sequence of Dictyostelium discoideum 5.8S ribosomal ribonucleic acid: evolutionary and secondary structural implications." Biochemistry 21: 2335-2343.
	
Okamoto, K., et al. (1982). "Changes in activity of enzymes associated with prespore differentiation in a suspension culture of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 716: 94-100.
	
Ohnishi, T., et al. (1982). "Formation of non-viable spores of Dictyostelium discoideum by UV-irradiation and caffeine." Photochem. Photobiol. 36: 355-358.
	
Ohnishi, T., et al. (1982). "Enhancement of ultraviolet or N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine sensitivity of Dictyostelium discoideum by 3-aminobenzamide." Photochem. Photobiol. 35: 515-519.
	
Ochiai, H., et al. (1982). "Monoclonal antibodies against contact sites A of Dictyostelium discoideum: detection of modifications of the glycoprotein in tunicamycin-treated cells." EMBO J. 1: 1011-1016.
	
Ochiai, H., et al. (1982). "Stage-specific antigens reacting with monoclonal antibodies against contact site A, a cell-surface glycoprotein of Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Differ. 11: 1-13.
	
Ochiai, H. (1982). "Cell adhesion of cellular slime molds with reference to contact sites A." Seikagaku 54: 1303.
	
Nozu, K., et al. (1982). "Pyrimidine dimer formation and germination of UV-irradiated spores of Dictyostelium discoideum NC-4 and gammaS-13." Photochem. Photobiol. 35: 587-589.
	
North, M. J., et al. (1982). "Chloroquine effects in Dictyostelium discoideum: inhibition of other enzymes besides the cathepsin B." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 15: 189-192.
	
North, M. J. (1982). "A study of the proteinase activity released by Dictyostelium discoideum during starvation." J. Gen. Microbiol. 128: 1653-1659.
	
North, M. J. (1982). "Proteolytic activities in Dictyostelium discoideum detected with chromogenic peptide substrates." Exp. Mycol. 6: 345-352.
	
Newell, P. C. and F. M. Ross (1982). "Inhibition by adenosine of aggregation centre initiation and cyclic AMP binding in Dictyostelium." J. Gen. Microbiol. 128: 2715-2724.
	
Newell, P. C. and F. M. Ross (1982). "Genetic analysis of the slug stage of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 128: 1639-1652.
	
Newell, P. C. (1982). Genetics. The development of Dictyostelium discoideum. W. F. Loomis. New York, Ac. Press: 35-70.
	
Newell, P. C. (1982). "Cell surface binding of adenosine to Dictyostelium and inhibition of pulsatile signalling." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 13: 417-421.
	
Murray, B. A. (1982). Membranes. The development of Dictyostelium discoideum. W. F. Loomis. New York, Ac. Press: 71-116.
	
Morrissey, J. H. (1982). Cell proportioning and pattern formation. The development of Dictyostelium discoideum. W. F. Loomis. New York, Ac. Press: 411-449.
	
Morris, P. S., et al. (1982). "Sexual pheromone accumulation and response in agar plate and liquid cultures of Dictyostelium discoideum." Can. J. Microbiol. 28: 1273-1276.
	
Monier-Lazard, F., et al. (1982). "Analysis of the effects of BUdR on growth and differentiation of the slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Biol. Cell 46: 29-36.
	
Monier-Lazard, F., et al. (1982). "Analysis of the effect of BUdR on growth and differentiation of the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Biol. Cell 46: 29-36.
	
Miyamoto, S. (1982). "Induction of cell contact sites by Ca2+-EDTA pulse in Dictyostelium discoideum." Experientia 38: 1052-1055.
	
Miller, R. J. and P. J. M. van Haastert (1982). Characteristic activities of cyclic GMP phosphodiesterase from Dictyostelium discoideum. Ohio J. Sci.
	
Meyers, B. L. (1982). Purification and characterization of the cyclic-AMP chemotactic receptor of Dictyostelium discoideum. St. Louis, MO, Washington University: 190.
	
Merkle, R. G. K. (1982). Characterization and localization of adenylate cyclase during development of Dictyostelium discoideum. Blacksburg, VA, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University: 131.
	
Meinhardt, H. (1982). Models of biological pattern formation. London, Acad. Press.
	
McKeown, M., et al. (1982). Examination of the regulation of the actin multigene family in Dictyostelium discoideum. Embryonic development. Part A. Genetic aspects. M. M. Burger and R. Weber. New York, A.R. Liss: 51-78.
	
McKeown, M. and R. A. Firtel (1982). "Actin multigene family of Dictyostelium." CSH Symp. Quant. Biol. 46 pt.2: 495-505.
	
Maruta, H., et al. (1982). Signal transduction in chemotaxis of Dictyostelium discoideum: role of Ca2+ and calmodulin in the regulation of myosin heavy chain kinases and other protein kinases. Plasmalemma and tonoplast; their functions in the plant cell. D. Marme, E. Marre and R. Hertel. Amsterdam, Elsevier Biomed. Press: 331-335.
	
Manrow, R. E. and R. P. Dottin (1982). "Demonstration, by renaturation in O'Farrell gels, of heterogeneity in Dictyostelium uridine diphosphoglucose pyrophosphorylase." Anal. Biochem. 120: 181-188.
	
Mangiarotti, G., et al. (1982). "Differences in the stability of developmentally regulated mRNAs in aggregated and disaggregated Dictyostelium discoideum cells." Dev. Biol. 89: 82-91.
	
Malchow, D., et al. (1982). "On the role of calcium in chemotaxis and oscillations of Dictyostelium cells." Biophys. Struct. Mech. 9: 131-136.
	
Madley, I. C., et al. (1982). "Cell-surface discoidin in aggregating cells of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. J. 204: 787-794.
	
MacWilliams, H. K. (1982). Transplantation experiments and pattern mutants in cellular slime mold slugs. Developmental order: Its origin and regulation (40th Symp. Soc. Dev. Biol.). S. Subtelny and P. B. Green. New York, A.R. Liss: 463-483.
	
Mach, J., et al. (1982). "Regulation of tRNA methyltransferase activities by spermidine and putrescine. Inhibition of polyamine synthesis and tRNA methylation by alpha-methylornithine or 1,3-diaminopropan-2-ol in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. J. 202: 153-162.
	
Luna, E. J. and C. G. Holland (1982). Interaction between an F-actin affinity matrix and a plasma membrane fraction from Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Lubs-Haukeness, J. and C. Klein (1982). "Cyclic nucleotide-dependent phosphorylation in Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae." J. Biol. Chem 257: 12204-12208.
	
Lopez-Alarcon, L. (1982). "Kinetic properties of pyruvate kinase from Dictyostelium discoideum." ICRS Med. Soc. Biochem. Cell Membr. Biol. Microbiol. Parasitol. Infect. Dis. 10: 52.
	
Loomis, W. F. and S. A. Wheeler (1982). "Chromatin-associated heat shock proteins of Dictyostelium." Dev. Biol. 90: 412-418.
	
Loomis, W. F. and S. A. Wheeler (1982). The physiological role of heat-shock proteins in Dictyostelium. Heat shock, from bacteria to man. M. J. Schlesinger, M. Ashburner and A. Tissieres. Cold Spring Harbor, CSH Lab.: 353-359.
	
Loomis, W. F., et al. (1982). "Phosphorylation of the major heat shock protein of Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cell. Biol. 2: 484-489.
	
Loomis, W. F. and R. Cann (1982). Bibliography on Dictyostelium. The development of Dictyostelium discoideum. W. F. Loomis. New York, Ac. Press: 451-538.
	
Loomis, W. F. (1982). The development of Dictyostelium discoideum. New York, Ac. Press.
	
Loomis, W. F. (1982). "The spatial pattern of cell-type differentiation in Dictyostelium." Dev. Biol. 93: 279-284.
	
Lodish, H. F., et al. (1982). Control of gene expression. The development of Dictyostelium discoideum. W. F. Loomis. New York, Ac. Press: 325-352.
	
Leichtling, B. H., et al. (1982). "Identification of the regulatory subunit of a cAMP-dependent protein kinase in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 105: 949-955.
	
Laroy, K. and G. Weeks (1982). "Extraction of membrane factors that inhibit aggregation in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 55: 277-286.
	
Lappano, S. and M. B. Coukell (1982). "Evidence that intracellular cGMP is involved in regulating the extracellular cAMP phosphodiesterase and its specific inhibitor in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 93: 43-53.
	
Lappano, S. (1982). Biochemical and physiological characterization of cAMP unresponsive (frigid) mutants on Dictyostelium discoideum and their use in studies on the regulation of early development by exogenous cAMP. Toronto, ON (Canada), York University: 161.
	
Landfear, S. M., et al. (1982). "Transcriptional control of gene expression during development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cell. Biol. 2: 1417-1426.
	
Lam, T. Y. and C.-H. Siu (1982). "Inhibition of cell differentiation and cell cohesion by tunicamycin in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 92: 398-407.
	
Kuriyama, R., et al. (1982). "In vitro nucleation of microtubules from microtubule-organizing center prepared from cellular slime molds." Cell Motil. 2: 257-272.
	
Kuczmarski, E. R. and J. A. Spudich (1982). Characterization of Dictyostelium myosin heavy chain kinase. J. Cell Biol.
	
Kuczmarski, E., et al. (1982). Phosphorylation of Dictyostelium myosin. Biophys. J.
	
Kopachik, W. J. (1982). "Size regulation in Dictyostelium." J. Embryol. Exp. Morphol. 68: 23-35.
	
Kopachik, W. J. (1982). "Orientation of cells during slug formation in Dictyostelium." W.R. Arch. Entw. Mech. 191: 348-354.
	
Knecht, D. A. (1982). Immunological and biochemical analysis of the modification of lysosomal enzymes in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. Madison, WI, The University of Wisconsin - Madison: 232.
	
Kitanishi, T., et al. (1982). Effects of ethylphenyl carbamate and thiabendazole on the microtubule system of Dictyostelium.2. Breakdown of microtubules and occurrence of multiple organizing centers. Cell Struct. Funct.
	
Kitanishi, T., et al. (1982). Effects of ethylphenyl carbamate and thiabendazole on the microtubule system of Dictyostelium.1. Formation of giant-cells and aberrant fruiting bodies. Cell Struct. Funct.
	
Kitami, M. (1982). "The motive force of the migrating pseudoplasmodium of Dictyostelium discoideum under dark and light conditions." J. Cell Sci. 56: 131-140.
	
Kimmel, A. R. and R. A. Firtel (1982). The organization and expression of the Dictyostelium genome. The development of Dictyostelium discoideum. W. F. Loomis. New York, Ac. Press: 234-324.
	
Kien, E. P. (1982). Activatie van de cAMP-receptor bij Dictyostelium discoideum. Leiden?, RUL?
	
Kelly, L., et al. (1982). Cloning of Dictyostelium discoideum genes specific for spore germination. Fed. Proc.
	
Kayman, S. C., et al. (1982). "Motility mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Biol. 93: 705-711.
	
Kayman, S. and M. Clarke (1982). Comparison of axenic and non-axenic strains of the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Kay, R. R. (1982). "cAMP and spore differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 79: 3228-3231.
	
Kawabe, K. (1982). "Dictyostelium brunneum - a new species of brown-pigmented cellular slime mold." Trans. Mycol. Soc. Japan 23: 91-94.
	
Kauss, H. (1982). Lectins and their physiological role in slime molds and in higher plants. Plant carbohydrates. II. Extracellular carbohydrates. (Encyclopedia of plant physiology, new series). F. A. Loewus and W. Tanner. Berlin, Springer-Verlag: 627-657.
	
Katz, E. R., et al. (1982). Mutants resistant to mitotic inhibitors in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. Microtubules in microorganisms (Microbiology series). P. Cappuccinelli and N. R. Morris. New York, Dekker: 109-128.
	
Kanda, F. and K. Sato (1982). "Composition and density of dictyostelid cellular slime molds in different plant communities formed along altitude of Mt. O-Akan, Hokkaida." Jap. J. Ecol. 32: 415-425.
	
Kanda, F. (1982). "Vertical distribution of dictyostelid cellular slime molds in Mount Me-Akan, Hokkaida." Jap. J. Ecol. 32: 251-253.
	
Kanda, F. (1982). "Composition and density of dictyostelid cellular slime molds in alder forests in the Kushiro Moor and its surrounding district." Jap. J. Ecol. 32: 79-85.
	
Kaleko, M. and F. G. Rothman (1982). "Membrane sites regulating developmental gene expression in Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell 2: 801-811.
	
Kaleko, M. (1982). Membrane sites regulating developmental gene expression in Dictyostelium discoideum. Providence, RI, Brown University: 86.
	
Julien, J., et al. (1982). "Cloning and analysis of a genomic fragment of Dictyostelium discoideum hybridizing to an RNA specifically accumulated in spore cells." EMBO J. 1: 1089-1093.
	
Jellinghaus, U., et al. (1982). "Transcription of a Dictyostelium discoidin-I gene in yeast. Alternative promotor sites used in two different eukaryotic cells." J. Mol. Biol. 159: 623-636.
	
Janssens, P., et al. (1982). Receptor mediated stimulation of guanylate cyclase and adenylate cyclase in Dictyostelium discoideum. Biol. Cell.
	
Jamieson, G. A. and W. A. Frazier (1982). "Calmodulin-binding proteins during Dictyostelium discoideum differentiation." J. Cell Biol. 95: 35a.
	
Jacquet, M., et al. (1982). "A fragment of Dictyostelium discoideum genomic DNA that complements the ura1 mutation of Saccharomyces cerevisiae." J. Mol. Appl. Genet. 1: 513-525.
	
Jackson, D. P., et al. (1982). "Utilization of trehalose during Dictyostelium discoideum spore germination." Dev. Biol. 90: 369-374.
	
Ishida, S. (1982). Analysis of pattern-formation by using cellular slime mold mutants. Devel. Growth Differ.
	
Ishida, S. (1982). "A mutant of Dictyostelium discoideum with alternative pathways of differentiaton depending on culture conditions." J. Gen. Microbiol. 128: 411-414.
	
Inouye, K. and I. Takeuchi (1982). "Correlations between prestalk-prespore tendencies and cAMP-related activities in Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Cell Res. 138: 311-318.
	
Imamoto, N. and Y. Fukui (1982). Filament system involved in the membrane cytoskeleton of Dictyostelium. Cell Struct. Funct.
	
Hirth, K. P., et al. (1982). "A DNA-mediated transformation system for Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 79: 7356-7360.
	
Hirano, T., et al. (1982). "Effect of tunicamycin on the biosynthesis of a glycoprotein antigen contact site A, in aggregation-competent cells of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biochem. 92: 765-773.
	
Higuchi, G., et al. (1982). A cinematographical study of the stalk formation of Dictyostelium discoideum. Devel. Growth Differ.
	
Higgins, R. D. and M. E. Dahmus (1982). "Glycogen phosphorylase synthesis in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 257: 5068-5074.
	
Henderson, E. J., et al. (1982). "Guanidine hydrochloride-induced shedding of Dictyostelium discoideum plasma membrane fraction enriched in the cAMP-receptor." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 690: 57-68.
	
Hase, A. (1982). "Changes in phospholipid composition during the development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 219: 21-29.
	
Harris, W. A. and M. J. North (1982). "Osmotically induced changes in the ornithine decarboxylase activity of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Bacteriol. 150: 716-721.
	
Hamer, J. E. and D. A. Cotter (1982). "Ultraviolet light-induced termination of RNA synthesis during Dictyostelium discoideum spore germination." Exp. Mycol. 6: 353-363.
	
Hagiwara, H. (1982). "Altitudinal distribution of dictyostelid cellular slime molds in the Gosainkund region of Nepal." Reports on the Cryptogamic Study in Nepal. March: 105-117.
	
Gregg, J. H., et al. (1982). "Antigenic differences detected between prespore cells of Dictyostelium discoideum and Dictyostelium mucoroides using monoclonal antibodies." Exp. Cell Res. 142: 229-233.
	
Gregg, J. H. and R. W. Davis (1982). "Dynamics of cell redifferentiation in Dictyostelium mucoroides." Differentiation 21: 200-205.
	
Godfrey, S. S. and M. Sussman (1982). "The genetics of development in Dictyostelium discoideum." Annu. Rev. Genet. 16: 385-404.
	
Gingell, D. and S. Vince (1982). "Substratum wettability and charge influence the spreading of Dictyostelium amoebae and the formation of ultrathin cytoplasmic lamellae." J. Cell Sci. 54: 255-285.
	
Gingell, D. and S. Vince (1982). "Cell-glass separation depends on salt concentration and valency: measurements on Dictyostelium amoebae by finite aperture interferometry." J. Cell Sci. 54: 299-310.
	
Gingell, D., et al. (1982). "Interaction between intracellular vacuoles and the cell suface analysed by finite aperture theory interference reflection microscopy." J. Cell Sci. 54: 287-298.
	
Giffard, R. G., et al. (1982). Direct measurement of binding of Dictyostelium severin to actin filaments. J. Cell Biol.
	
Gerisch, G., et al. (1982). Pteridines released from Dictyostelium discoideum cells into the extracellular medium. Biochemical and clinical aspects of pteridines. H. Wachter, H. C. Curtius and W. Pfleiderer. New York, Walter de Gruyter: 253-256.
	
Gerisch, G. (1982). Dynamics of cyclic AMP signal generation and cell-development in Dictyostelium discoideum. Hoppe-Seyler's Z. Physiol. Chemie.
	
Gerisch, G. (1982). "Chemotaxis in Dictyostelium." Annu. Rev. Physiol. 44: 535-552.
	
Gerisch, G. (1982). Developmental control of cell adhesion in Dictyostelium. Eur. J. Cell Biol.
	
Gardner, J. L. and M. H. Hanna (1982). "Calcium, cellular adhesion and aggregation competence in the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium violaceum." Exp. Cell Res. 137: 169-179.
	
Futrelle, R. P. and L. L. Walsh (1982). A surface stress model and computer simulation of ameboid shape change and locomotion. ASCB 22nd annual meeting.
	
Futrelle, R. P., et al. (1982). "Cell behavior in Dictyostelium discoideum preaggregation response to localized cAMP pulses." J. Cell Biol. 92: 807-821.
	
Futrelle, R. P., et al. (1982). cAMP-induced cell motion changes in Dictyostelium filmed using a new cell suspension chamber. J. Cell Biol.
	
Futrelle, R. P. (1982). "Dictyostelium chemotactic response to spatial and temporal gradients. Theories of the limits of chemotactic sensitivity and of pseudochemotaxis." J. Cell. Biochem. 18: 197-212.
	
Fukui, Y. and N. Imamoto (1982). A novel monoclonal antibody raised against the membrane cytoskeleton of Dictyostelium which recognizes phagosome membrane. Cell Struct. Funct.
	
Fukuhara, H. (1982). "Restriction map and gene organization of the mitochondrial DNA from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biol. Cell 46: 321-324.
	
Fujiki, N., et al. (1982). Synthesis of proteins involved in development of Dictyostelium discoideum. Devel. Growth Differ.
	
Frazier, W. A., et al. (1982). "Chemotactic receptors of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell. Biochem. 18: 181-196.
	
Frazier, W. and B. Meyers (1982). Association of receptors for chemoattractants with the detergent insoluble residue of Dictyostelium discoideum cells. J. Cell Biol.
	
Francis, D. W. (1982). Polysphondylium and dependent sequences. The development of Dictyostelium discoideum. W. F. Loomis. New York, Ac. Press: 387-409.
	
Fontana, D. R. (1982). Thermotactic and phototactic responses of Dictyostelium discoideum pseudoplasmodia. East Lansing, MI, Michigan State Univ.: 127.
	
Fisher, P. R. and K. L. Williams (1982). "Thermotactic behaviour of Dictyostelium discoideum slug phototaxis mutants." J. Gen. Microbiol. 128: 965-971.
	
Fishel, B. R., et al. (1982). "Developmental regulation of multiple forms of UDP-glucose pyrophosphorylase of Dictyostelium." Dev. Biol. 92: 175-187.
	
Fechheimer, M., et al. (1982). Content, biosynthesis, and distribution of the 95,000 dalton actin-binding protein from Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Fechheimer, M., et al. (1982). The 95,000 dalton actin binding-protein from Dictyostelium discoideum. Biophys. J.
	
Fechheimer, M., et al. (1982). "A calcium- and pH-regulated actin binding protein from D. discoideum." Cell Motil. 2: 287-308.
	
Erdos, G. W. and D. Whitaker (1982). "Discoidin in the sexual cycle of Dictyostelium discoideum." Mycologia 74: 695-701.
	
Emyanitoff, R. G. and P. J. Kelly (1982). "Kinetic characterization of mitochondrial malate dehydrogenase from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 128: 1767-1771.
	
Emyanitoff, R. G. (1982). "Purification and characterization of NAD dependent isocitrate dehydrogenase from Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Mycol. 6: 274-282.
	
Emery, H. S. (1982). Linear extrachromosomal ribosomal-DNA of Dictyostelium discoideum: sequence organization near the termini and a search for chromosomal ribosomal-DNA. New Haven, CT, Yale University: 105.
	
Drake, D. K. and S. D. Rosen (1982). The palladin-receptor system in the intercellular adhesion of the cellular slime mold, Polysphondylium pallidum. Cellular Recognition. W. A. Frazier, L. Glaser and D. I. Gottlieb. New York, A.R. Liss: 777-787.
	
Drake, D. K. and S. D. Rosen (1982). "Identification and purification of an endogenous receptor for the lectin pallidin from Polysphondylium pallidum." J. Cell Biol. 93: 383-389.
	
Drake, D. K. (1982). The purification and characterization of an endogenous, extracellular glycoconjugate receptor for the lectin pallidin in Polysphondylium pallidum. San Francisco, CA, University of California, San Franciso (UCSF): 239.
	
Dowbenko, D. J. and H. L. Ennis (1982). "Developmental regulation of protein synthesis during Polysphondylium pallidum cyst germination - a two dimensional gel electropheresis study." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 696: 218-222.
	
Dorsman, J. (1982). Onderzoek naar een mogelijke vroege ultrastructurele differentiatie marker van de slijmschimmel Dictyostelium discoideum. Leiden, R.U. Leiden.
	
Dicou, E. L. and P. Brachet (1982). "An intracellular modulator of the 3',5'-cGMP hydrolysis in growing Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae." Eur. J. Biochem. 125: 331-334.
	
Devreotes, P. N. (1982). Chemotaxis. The development of Dictyostelium discoideum. W. F. Loomis. New York, Ac. Press: 117-168.
	
Devreotes, P., et al. (1982). Chemotaxis: Workshop Report. Cellular Recognition. W. A. Frazier, L. Glaser and D. I. Gottlieb. New York, A.R. Liss: 805-808.
	
Devine, K. M., et al. (1982). "Differential synthesis of spore coat proteins in prespore and prestalk cells of Dictyostelium." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 79: 7361-7365.
	
Devine, J. M. and J. G. Williams (1982). "Characterization of sequence elements at the 5' end of a discoidin I gene isolated from Dictyostelium discoideum." Nucl. Acids Res. 10: 1231-1241.
	
Devine, J. M., et al. (1982). "Differential expression of the members of the discoidin I multigene family during growth and development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell 28: 793-800.
	
Deering, R. A. and C. A. Michrina (1982). "Inhibitors of DNA precursor metabolism in Dictyostelium discoideum." Antimicrob. Agents Chemother. 21: 764-769.
	
Deering, R. A. (1982). "Constitutive and gamma ray modified uptake of labelled precursors into the DNA of Dictyostelium discoideum during development." J. Gen. Microbiol. 128: 2439-2447.
	
Decroly, O. and A. Goldbeter (1982). "Birythmicity, chaos, and other patterns of temporal self-organization in a multiply regulated biochemical system." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 79: 6917-6921.
	
Deasey, M. C. (1982). Aspects of sorogenesis in the cellular slime mold Fonticula alba. Chapel Hill, NC, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill: 119.
	
Deasey, M. C. (1982). "Spore formation by the cellular slime mold Fonticula alba." Mycologia 74: 607-613.
	
de Wit, R. J. W., et al. (1982). "Ligand binding properties of the cytoplasmic cAMP-binding protein of Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 145: 150-154.
	
de Wit, R. J. W. (1982). "Two distinct types of cell surface folic acid-binding proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 150: 445-448.
	
de Gunzburg, J. and M. Veron (1982). A cAMP-binding protein from differentiating Dictyostelium discoideum cells. Biol. Cell.
	
de Gunzburg, J. and M. Veron (1982). "A cAMP-dependent protein kinase is present in differentiating Dictyostelium discoideum cells." EMBO J. 1: 1063-1068.
	
de Gunzburg, J. and P. Brachet (1982). "Cellular responsiveness to cyclic AMP in phosphodiesterase defective mutant of Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Differ. 11: 117-123.
	
de Chastellier, C. and A. Ryter (1982). "Calcium deposits at the plasma membrane of Dictyostelium discoideum during phagocytosis and cell motility." Biol. Cell 43: 121-128.
	
Cooper, D. N., et al. (1982). Localization of Discoidin I and II in developing Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Condeelis, J. and M. Vahey (1982). "A calcium-regulated and pH-regulated protein from Dictyostelium discoideum that cross-links actin filaments." J. Cell Biol. 94: 466-471.
	
Condeelis, J., et al. (1982). "Isolation of a new actin-binding protein from Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Motil. 2: 273-285.
	
Coffman, D. S., et al. (1982). "The phosphorylation of membranal proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum during development." Dev. Biol. 93: 422-429.
	
Coffman, D. S. (1982). The phosphorylation of proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum during development. Boulder, CO, University of Colorado at Boulder: 245.
	
Claviez, M., et al. (1982). "Electron microscopic mapping of monoclonal antibodies on the tail region of Dictyostelium myosin." EMBO J. 1: 1017-1022.
	
Choi, A. H. C. and D. H. O'Day (1982). "Ammonia and the induction of microcyst differentiation in wild-type and mutant strains of the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium pallidum." Dev. Biol. 92: 356-364.
	
Chaney, L. K. and B. S. Jacobson (1982). A novel plasma membrane isolation method for transmembrane protein mapping and the study of plasma membrane cytoplasmic interactions in Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Chan, A. H. and D. A. Cotter (1982). "Spore-activating agents influence the temporal and quantitative activity of beta-glucosidase and trehalase during Dictyostelium discoideum germination." Exp. Mycol. 6: 77-83.
	
Chan, A. H. and D. A. Cotter (1982). "The role and expression of beta-glucosidase during spore germination of mutant and wild-type Dictyostelium discoideum." Can. J. Microbiol. 28: 740-.
	
Cavender, J. C. (1982). Cellular slime molds of Ohio. Ohio J. Sci.
	
Cappuccinelli, P., et al. (1982). Organization of the microtubular system in Dictyostelium amoebae. Microtubules in microorganisms (Microbiology series). P. Cappuccinelli and N. R. Morris. New York, Marcel Dekker: 71-98.
	
Camonis, J., et al. (1982). "Polyadenylated RNA population present in dormant spores of Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Differ. 11: 55-61.
	
Byrne, G. W., et al. (1982). "Pattern formation and tip inhibition in the cellular slime mold Polysphodylium pallidum." Differentiation 23: 103-108.
	
Buss, L. W. (1982). "Somatic cell parasitism and the evolution of somatic tissue compatibility." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 79: 5337-5341.
	
Brown, S. S., et al. (1982). "A 40,000-dalton protein from Dictyostelium discoideum affects assembly properties of actin in a Ca2+-dependent manner." J. Cell Biol. 93: 205-210.
	
Brookman, J. J., et al. (1982). "Developmental regulation of a stalk cell differentiation-inducing factor in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 91: 191-196.
	
Bozzone, D. M. and J. T. Bonner (1982). "Macrocyst formation in Dictyostelium discoideum: mating or selfing." J. Exp. Zool. 220: 391-394.
	
Bozzaro, S. and S. Roseman (1982). Adhesion of Dictyostelium discoideum cells to sugar derivatized polyacrylamide gels. Embryonic Development. Part B. Cellular Aspects. M. M. Burger and R. Weber. New York, A.R. Liss: 183-192.
	
Bozzaro, S. (1982). "Intercellular adhesion in the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium pallidum." G. Batt. Virol. Immun. 75: 25-47.
	
Bozzaro, S. (1982). "Derivatization of polyacrylamide gels with Pallidin, a lectin of the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium pallidum." Italian J. Biochem. 31: 173-182.
	
Boy-Marcotte, E. and M. Jacquet (1982). "A Dictyostelium discoideum DNA fragment complements a Saccharomyces cerevisiae ura3 mutant." Gene 20: 433-440.
	
Boto, L., et al. (1982). Effects of n-butyrate on Dictyostelium discoideum development. Biol. Cell.
	
Borts, R. H. (1982). The identification and characterization of the isozymes of alpha-glucosidase in the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum. Madison, WI, The University of Wisconsin - Madison: 152.
	
Bonner, J. T. and H. S. Horn (1982). Selection for size, shape and development timing. Evolution and development. J. T. Bonner. Berlin, Springer Verlag: 259-276.
	
Bonner, J. T., et al. (1982). "The role of surface water and light on differentiation in the cellular slime molds." Differentation 21: 123-126.
	
Bonner, J. T. (1982). "Evolutionary strategies and developmental constraints in the cellular slime molds." Am. Naturalist 119: 530-552.
	
Bonner, J. T. (1982). Comparative biology of cellular slime molds. The development of Dictyostelium discoideum. W. F. Loomis. New York, Ac. Press: 1-33.
	
Blumberg, D. D., et al. (1982). "Specific cell-cell contacts are essential for induction of gene expression during differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 79: 127-131.
	
Blumberg, D. D., et al. (1982). Cell-cell contact, cyclic AMP, and gene expression during differentiation of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. Embryonic Development. Part B. Cellular Aspects. M. M. Burger and R. Weber. New York, A.R. Liss: 167-182.
	
Blanco, M. (1982). "Evidence for the existence of a monovalent cation-stimulated, magnesium-dependent adenosine triphosphatase activity in the isolated plasma membranes of amoebas of the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 687: 94-96.
	
Bergmann, K. F. (1982). Vegetative cell cohesion in the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Berger, E. A. and J. M. Clark (1982). Alterations in developmental gene expression in cohesion-defective mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Berger, E. A. and D. R. Armant (1982). "Discoidins I and II: Common and unique regions on two lectins implicated in cell-cell cohesion in Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 79: 2162-2166.
	
Bazari, W. L. and M. Clarke (1982). "Dictyostelium calmodulin: production of a specific antiserum and localization in amoebae." Cell Motil. 2: 471-482.
	
Bazari, W. L. and M. Clarke (1982). A calmodulin and actin binding protein from amebas of Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Bartles, J. R., et al. (1982). "Discoidin I-membrane interactions. III. Interaction of discoidin I with living Dictyostelium discoideum cells." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 687: 137-146.
	
Bartles, J. R., et al. (1982). "Discoidin I-membrane interactions. II. Discoidin I binds to and agglutinates negatively charged phospholipid vesicles." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 687: 129-136.
	
Bartles, J. R., et al. (1982). "Slime mold lectins." Int. Rev. Cytol. 75: 61-99.
	
Bartles, J. R. and W. A. Frazier (1982). "Discoidin I-membrane interactions. I. Discoidin I binds to two types of receptor on fixed Dictyostelium discoideum cells." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 687: 121-128.
	
Barra, J. (1982). Contribution a l'etude des communications cellulaires au cours de la phase d'aggregation de Dictyostelium discoideum. Paris 6, L'Universite Pierre et Marie Curie: 228.
	
Barondes, S. H., et al. (1982). Cell adhesion. The development of Dictyostelium discoideum. W. F. Loomis. New York, Ac. Press: 195-231.
	
Barclay, S. L. and E. J. Henderson (1982). "Thermosensitive development and tip regulation in a mutant of Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 79: 505-509.
	
Bakke, A. C. and R. A. Lerner (1982). "The cascade of membrane events during development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Subcell. Biochem. 8: 75-122.
	
Armant, D. R. and C. L. Rutherford (1982). "Properties of a 5'-AMP specific nucleotidase which accumulates in one cell type during development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 216: 485-494.
	
Armant, D. R. and E. A. Berger (1982). "Immunochemical analysis of discoidins I and II at the cell surface of wild type and aggregation-defective mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell. Biochem. 18: 169-180.
	
Arents, J. C. and R. van Driel (1982). "Soluble, cytoplasmic cAMP-binding proteins of Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 137: 201-204.
	
Arents, J., et al. (1982). Intracellular binding-proteins for cyclic AMP and cyclic GMP in Dictyostelium discoideum. Biol. Cell.
	
Zuker, C. and H. F. Lodish (1981). "Repetitive DNA sequences cotranscribed with developmentally regulated Dictyostelium mRNAs." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 78: 5386-5390.
	
Yumura, S. and Y. Fukui (1981). Calcium sensitivity of the interaction of actin and myosin with Dictyostelium membrane preparations. Cell Struct. Funct.
	
Yumura, S. and Y. Fukui (1981). The cell internal polarization and its relevance to the behavior of Dictyostelium. Devel. Growth Differ.
	
Yamasaki, F. and H. Hayashi (1981). "Intracellular localization of phosphodiesterase induced by cyclic adenosine 3', 5'-monophosphate in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biochem. 89: 543-550.
	
Yamamoto, A., et al. (1981). "Development of an autophagic system in differentiating cells of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Protoplasma 108: 55-69.
	
Wurster, B. and J. Bumann (1981). "Cell differentiaton in the absence of intracellular cyclic AMP pulses in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 85: 262-265.
	
Wurster, B., et al. (1981). "Folic acid and pterin deaminases in Dictyostelium discoideum: Kinetic properties and regulation by folic acid, pterin, and adenosine 3',5'-phosphate." J. Bacteriol. 148: 183-192.
	
Wright, B. E. and P. J. Kelly (1981). "Kinetic models of metabolism in intact cells, tissues, and organisms." Curr. Topics Cell. Regul. 19: 103-158.
	
Wise, J. A. and A. M. Weiner (1981). "The small nuclear RNAs of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 256: 956-963.
	
Wise, J. A. (1981). The small nuclear RNAs of Dictyostelium discoideum. New Haven, CT, Yale University: 142.
	
Williams, K. L., et al. (1981). "Cell patterning in Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 18: 61-63.
	
Williams, K. L. (1981). "Two arsenate resistance loci in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 11: 317-320.
	
Wilcox, D. K. and M. Sussman (1981). "Serologically distinguishable alterations in the molecular specificity of cell cohesion during morphogenesis in Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 78: 358-362.
	
Wilcox, D. K. and M. Sussman (1981). "Defective cell cohesivity expressed late in the development of a Dictyostelium discoideum mutant." Dev. Biol. 82: 102-112.
	
Wilcox, D. K. (1981). Study of the cell surface cohesion properties in Dictyostelium discoideum. Pittsburgh, PA, University of Pittsburgh: 129.
	
White, E., et al. (1981). "Inhibition by CIPC of mitosis and development in Dictyostelium discoideum and the isolation of CIPC-resistant mutants." Dev. Genet. 2: 99-111.
	
White, E., et al. (1981). Cytoskeletal changes occurring in Dictyostelium discoideum early development. J. Cell Biol.
	
West, C. M. and D. McMahon (1981). "The involvement of a class of cell surface glycoconjugates in pseudoplasmodial morphogenesis in Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 20: 61-64.
	
West, C. and A. Lubniewski (1981). A temperature-sensitive defect in cell-differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Welker, D. L. and K. L. Williams (1981). "Genetic and cytological characterization of fusion chromosomes of Dictyostelium discoideum." Chromosoma 82: 321-332.
	
Welker, D. L. and K. L. Williams (1981). "Temperature-sensitive DNA repair mutations in the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Curr. Genet. 3: 167-171.
	
Waterfall, W. (1981). "Slime mold: singular and plural." Mosaic 12(4): 28-33.
	
Vogel, G. (1981). Recognition mechanisms in phagocytosis in Dictyostelium discoideum. Endocytosis in primitive organisms. (Monographs in Allergy). P. Kallos and e. al. Basel, S. Karger: 1-11.
	
Varnum, B. and D. R. Soll (1981). "Chemoresponsiveness to cAMP and folic acid during growth, development, and dedifferentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 18: 151-160.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M., et al. (1981). The cell-surface cyclic AMP receptor for phosphodiesterase induction in Dictyostelium discoideum. Adv. Cycl. Nucl. Res.
	
van Haastert, P. J. M., et al. (1981). "Evidence that the rate of association of cAMP to its chemotactic receptor induces phosphodiesterase activity in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Bacteriol. 147: 170-175.
	
van Driel, R. (1981). "Binding of the chemoattractant folic acid by Dictyostelium discoideum cells." Eur. J. Biochem. 115: 391-395.
	
Unger, E., et al. (1981). "Immunofluorescenzuntersuchungen am mikrotubularen System von Schleimpilzen." Gegenbaurs Morphol. Jahrb. Leipzig 127: 683-687.
	
Tsang, A. S., et al. (1981). "The multiple subunits of discoidin I are encoded by different genes." Dev. Biol. 84: 212-217.
	
Tsang, A. and J. M. Bradbury (1981). "Separation and properties of prestalk and prespore cells of Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Cell Res. 132: 433-441.
	
Tsang, A. (1981). Cell sorting, cell differentiation and cyclic AMP. (News and Views). Nature. 291: 532.
	
Traub, F., et al. (1981). "Cellular slime molds of Switzerland. II. Distribution in forest soils." Am. J. Bot. 68: 172-182.
	
Traub, F., et al. (1981). "Cellular slime molds of Switzerland. I. Description of new species." Am. J. Bot. 68: 162-171.
	
Toorchen, D. P. (1981). A study of cAMP-phosphodiesterase and inhibitor protein from Dictyostelium discoideum. Cambridge, MA, Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT).
	
Tomchik, K. J. and P. N. Devreotes (1981). "Adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate waves in Dictyostelium discoideum: A demonstration by isotope dilution-fluorography technique." Science 212: 443-446.
	
Toda, K., et al. (1981). "Developmentally regulated glycoprotein alterations in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biochem. 90: 1429-1436.
	
Thomas, D. A. (1981). "Partial purification and characterization of glucose-6-phosphate isomerase from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 124: 403-407.
	
Tasaka, M. and I. Takeuchi (1981). Role of cell sorting in pattern formation in Dictyostelium discoideum. Devel. Growth Differ.
	
Tasaka, M. and I. Takeuchi (1981). "Role of cell sorting in pattern formation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 18: 191-196.
	
Takiya, S., et al. (1981). "Template specificity of DNA-dependent RNA polymerase-I and polymerase-2 during development of a mutant of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Plant Cell Physiol. 22: 1199-1205.
	
Taki, S., et al. (1981). Localization of Dictyostelium actin probed by DNAse I-anti-DNAse. I. Indirect immunofluorescence. Cell Struct. Funct.
	
Takeishi, K. and S. Kaneda (1981). "Isolation and characterization of small nuclear RNAs from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biochem. 90: 299-308.
	
Swanson, J. A., et al. (1981). "Coated vesicles in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Ultrastruct. Res. 75: 243-249.
	
Sumino, T. (1981). "A cell-marking technique for a cellular slime mold." Experientia 37: 1075-1076.
	
Sternfeld, J. and C. N. David (1981). "Oxygen gradients cause pattern orientation in Dictyostelium cell clumps." J. Cell Sci. 50: 9-17.
	
Sternfeld, J. and C. N. David (1981). "Cell sorting during pattern formation in Dictyostelium." Differentiation 20: 10-21.
	
Stenhouse, F. O. and K. L. Williams (1981). "Investigation of cell patterning in the asexual fruiting body of Dictyostelium discoideum using haploid and isogenic diploid strains." Differentiation 18: 1-9.
	
Stenhouse, F. O. and K. L. Williams (1981). "Cell patterning in branched and unbranched fruiting bodies of the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium pallidum." Dev. Biol. 81: 139-144.
	
Spudich, J. A., et al. (1981). "Control of assembly of Dictyostelium myosin and actin filaments." CSH Symp. Quant. Biol. 46 part 2: 553-561.
	
Springer, W. and S. Barondes (1981). Inhibition of cell-cell adhesion by IgG - identification of antigen targets in Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Smith, E. and K. L. Williams (1981). "The age-dependent loss of cells from the rear of a Dictyostelium discoideum slug is not tip controlled." J. Embryol. Exp. Morphol. 61: 61-67.
	
Sinha, U. and J. M. Ashworth (1981). "Excretion and accumulation of certain developmentally regulated enzymes due to p-fluorophenylalanine incorporation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Indian Natl. Acad. Sci. Part B (Biol. Sci.) 47: 210-214.
	
Simpson, P. A., et al. (1981). Exchange of actin filament subunits appears restricted to filament ends. J. Cell Biol.
	
Scrive, M., et al. (1981). "Study of the aggregation process of Dictyostelium discoideum after 5-BUdR treatment." Biol. Cell 41: 143-152.
	
Schaap, P., et al. (1981). "Development of the simple cellular slime mold Dictyostelium minutum." Dev. Biol. 85: 171-179.
	
Schaap, P., et al. (1981). "The vacuolar apparatus of the simple cellular slime mold Dictyostelium minutum." Biol. Cell 41: 133-142.
	
Saneyoshi, M., et al. (1981). "Inhibitory effect of 3'-deoxycytidine 5'-triphosphate and 3'-deoxyuridine 5'-triphosphate on DNA-dependent RNA polymerases I and II purified from Dictyostelium discoideum cells." Nucl. Acids Res. 9: 3129-3138.
	
Saito, M. (1981). "Species-specific cell surface changes during the development in the cellular slime mold." Cytologia 46: 427-430.
	
Rutherford, C., et al. (1981). Enzymatic potential for establishing gradients of cyclic AMP during cell determination in Dictyostelium discoideum. Adv. Cycl. Nucl. Res.
	
Rubinow, S. I., et al. (1981). "A mathematical framework for the study of morphogenetic development in the slime mold." J. Theor. Biol. 91: 99-113.
	
Rubino, S., et al. (1981). The cytoskeleton of Dictyostelium discoideum during chemotactic response. Adv. Cycl. Nucl. Res.
	
Rubenstein, P., et al. (1981). "NH2-terminal acetylation of Dictyostelium discoideum actin in a cell-free protein synthesizing system." J. Biol. Chem. 256: 8149-8155.
	
Rossomando, E. F., et al. (1981). "Inhibition of a nutrient-dependent pinocytosis in Dictyostelium discoideum by the amino acid analogue hadacidin." J. Cell Biol. 91: 227-231.
	
Rossomando, E. F., et al. (1981). "Isolation and characterization of an adenylyl-protein complex formed during the incubation of membranes from Dictyostelium discoideum with ATP." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 675: 386-391.
	
Rossler, H. H., et al. (1981). "The dependence of glycosyltransferases in Dictyostelium discoideum on the structure of polyisoprenols." Mol. Cell. Biochem. 34: 65-72.
	
Ross, F. M. and P. C. Newell (1981). "Streamers: Chemotactic mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum with altered cyclic GMP metabolism." J. Gen. Microbiol. 127: 339-350.
	
Roos, U. P. and R. Camenzind (1981). "Spindle dynamics during mitosis in Dictyostelium discoideum." Eur. J. Cell Biol. 25: 248-257.
	
Roos, U. P. (1981). Quantitative structure analysis of the mitotic spindle. International Cell Biology 1980-1981. H. G. Schweiger. Berlin, Heidelberg, New York, Springer-Verlag: 369-381.
	
Robson, G. E. and K. L. Williams (1981). "Quantitative analysis of macrocyst formation in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 125: 463-467.
	
Robertson, A. D. J. and J. F. Grutsch (1981). "Aggregation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell 24: 603-611.
	
Renart, M. F., et al. (1981). In situ assay of adenylate cyclase in Dictyostelium discoideum. Adv. Cycl. Nucl. Res.
	
Renart, M. F., et al. (1981). "Adenylate cyclase activity in permeabilized cells from Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Biol. Int. Reports 5: 1045-1054.
	
Redman, K. and P. A. Rubenstein (1981). "NH2-terminal processing of Dictyostelium discoideum actin in vitro." J. Biol. Chem. 256: 13226-13229.
	
Redman, K. and P. Rubenstein (1981). Amino terminal processing of D. discoideum actin in vitro. Circulation.
	
Ratner, D. J., et al. (1981). Evidence for the transformation of Dictyostelium discoideum with homologous DNA. Developmental biology using purified genes. (ICN-UCLA symp.). D. D. Brown. New York, Ac. Press: 595-605.
	
Ramagopal, S. and H. L. Ennis (1981). "Regulation of synthesis of cell-specific ribosomal proteins during differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 78: 3083-3087.
	
Poole, S., et al. (1981). "Sequence and expression of the discoidin I gene family in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Mol. Biol. 153: 273-289.
	
Piontelli, E., et al. (1981). "Coprophilous fungi of the horse." Mycopathologia 74: 89-105.
	
Philippi, M. L. and R. W. Parish (1981). "Changes in glucan synthetase activity and plasma membrane proteins during encystment of the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium pallidum." Planta 152: 59-69.
	
Peltz, G., et al. (1981). "Dictyostelium myosin: Characterization of chymotryptic fragments and localization of the heavy-chain phosphorylation site." J. Cell Biol. 89: 104-108.
	
Peffley, D. M. and M. L. Sogin (1981). "A putative tRNA gene cloned from Dictyostelium discoideum: its nucleotide sequence and association with repetitive deoxyribonucleic acid." Biochemistry 20: 4015-4021.
	
Peacey, M. J. and J. D. Gross (1981). "The effect of proteases on gene expression and cell differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 19: 189-193.
	
Paterno, G. D. and D. H. O'Day (1981). "Cellular differentiation and pattern formation in the absence of morphogenesis in the cellular slime mould Polysphondylium pallidum: evidence for a biochemical tip (organizer) in submerged aggregates." Can. J. Microbiol. 27: 924-937.
	
Pate, E. F. and G. M. Odell (1981). "A computer simulation of chemical signaling during the aggregation phase of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Theor. Biol. 88: 201-239.
	
Parish, R. W., et al. (1981). "Labelling of Dictyostelium and Polysphondylium plasma membranes with photosensitive hydrophobic probe." FEBS Lett. 133: 291-295.
	
Pardee, J. D., et al. (1981). Quantitation of actin filament subunit exchange by fluorescence energy transfer. J. Cell Biol.
	
Palatnik, C. M., et al. (1981). "Partial purification of a developmentally regulated mRNA from Dictyostelium discoideum by thermal elution from poly(U)-sepharose." J. Mol. Biol. 150: 389-398.
	
Oyama, M., et al. (1981). Regulation of proportion of prespore cells in Dictyostelium discoideum. Devel. Growth Differ.
	
Orlow, S. J., et al. (1981). "The extracellular cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase of Dictyostelium discoideum. Purification and characterization." J. Biol. Chem. 256: 7620-7627.
	
Ono, K., et al. (1981). "Drastic changes in accumulation and synthesis of plasma-membrane proteins during aggregation of Dictyostelium discoideum." Eur. J. Biochem. 119: 133-143.
	
Okamoto, K. (1981). "Differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum cells in suspension culture." J. Gen. Microbiol. 127: 301-308.
	
Ohnishi, T., et al. (1981). "Effects of caffeine on DNA repairs of UV-irradiated Dictyostelium discoideum." Photochem. Photobiol. 33: 79-83.
	
O'Day, D. H., et al. (1981). "An auto-inhibitor of zygote giant cell formation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Cell Res. 131: 456-458.
	
O'Day, D. H. and K. E. Lewis (1981). Pheromonal interactions during mating in Dictyostelium. Sexual interactions in eukaryotic microbes. D. H. O'Day and P. A. Horgen. New York, Ac. Press: 199-224.
	
O'Connor, K., et al. (1981). Analysis of the composition of Dictyostelium discoideum spore wall mucopolysaccharide. J. Cell Biol.
	
Newell, P. C. (1981). Chemotaxis in the cellular slime moulds. Biology of the chemotactic response. J. M. Lackie and P. C. Wilkinson. Cambridge, Cambridge Univ. Press: 89-114.
	
Nandini-Kishore, S. G. and W. A. Frazier (1981). "(3H)Methotrexate as a ligand for the folate receptor of Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 78: 7299-7303.
	
Murray, B. A., et al. (1981). "Immunological analysis of a glycoprotein (contact sites A) involved in intercellular adhesion of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Supramol. Struct. Cell. Biochem. 17: 197-211.
	
Murata, Y. (1981). Morphogenesis of Dictyostelium discoideum observed by scanning electron-microscopy. J. Electron Microsc.
	
Morrissey, J. H. and W. F. Loomis (1981). "Parasexual genetic analysis of cell proportioning mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum." Genetics 99: 183-196.
	
Morrissey, J. H., et al. (1981). "Pattern formation in Dictyostelium discoideum: an analysis of mutants altered in cell proportioning." Dev. Biol. 83: 1-8.
	
Morrissey, J. H. (1981). "Silver stain for proteins in polyacrylamide gels: a modified procedure with enhanced uniform sensitivity." Anal. Biochem. 117: 307-310.
	
Meyers, B. L. and W. A. Frazier (1981). "Solubilization and hydrophobic immobilization assay of a cAMP binding protein from Dictyostelium discoideum plasma membrane." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 101: 1011-1017.
	
McMahon, D. (1981). "Cell interactions and pattern formation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Recent Advances in Phytochemistry. The Phytochemistry of Cell Recognition and Cell Surface Interactions. 15: 259-272.
	
McKeown, M. B. (1981). The actin multigene family of Dictyostelium. La Jolla, CA, University of California, San Diego (UCSD): 156.
	
McKeown, M., et al. (1981). Organization and expression of the actin multi-gene family in Dictyostelium discoideum. Developmental biology using purified genes. (ICN-UCLA symp.). D. D. Brown. New York, Ac. Press: 107-116.
	
McKeown, M. and R. A. Firtel (1981). "Evidence for sub-families of actin genes in Dictyostelium as determined by comparisons of 3'end sequences." J. Mol. Biol. 151: 593-606.
	
McKeown, M. and R. A. Firtel (1981). "Differential expression and 5'end mapping of actin genes in Dictyostelium." Cell 24: 799-807.
	
Manrow, R. E. (1981). Dictyostelium discoideum uridine diphosphoglucose pyrophosphorylase: partial purification and renaturation in polyacrylamide gels. Baltimore, MD, The Johns Hopkins University: 144.
	
Mangiarotti, G., et al. (1981). "Selection and analysis of cloned developmentally-regulated Dictyostelium discoideum genes by hybridization-competition." Nucl. Acids Res. 9: 947-963.
	
Mangiarotti, G., et al. (1981). "Rates of synthesis and degradation of ribosomal ribonucleic acid during differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cell. Biol. 1: 35-42.
	
Malchow, D., et al. (1981). "Regulation of phosphorylation of myosin heavy chain during the chemotactic response of Dictyostelium cells." Eur. J. Biochem. 117: 213-218.
	
Malati, T. and H. Risse (1981). Studies on membrane-proteins in slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum during differentiation. Indian J. Biochem. Biophys.
	
Madley, I. C., et al. (1981). "Common cell-surface receptors for discoidin I and discoidin II in Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 20: 278-282.
	
Madley, I. C. and B. D. Hames (1981). "An analysis of discoidin I binding sites in Dictyostelium discoideum (NC4)." Biochem. J. 200: 83-91.
	
Mach, M., et al. (1981). "Measurements of polyamines and their acetylated derivatives in cell extracts and physiological fluids by use of an amino acid analyzer." J. Chrom. 223: 51-57.
	
Luna, E. J., et al. (1981). "A membrane cytoskeleton from Dictyostelium discoideum. I. Identification and partial characterization of an actin-binding activity." J. Cell Biol. 88: 396-409.
	
Lokeshwar, B. L. and V. Nanjundiah (1981). "The scale-invariance of spatial patterning in a developing system." W.R. Arch. Entw. Mech. 190: 361-364.
	
Leichtling, B. H., et al. (1981). "A cytoplasmic cAMP-binding protein in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 82: 150-157.
	
Leichtling, B. H., et al. (1981). "A cAMP-binding protein from Dictyostelium discoideum regulates mammalian protein kinase." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 100: 515-512.
	
Leichtling, B. H., et al. (1981). "Occurrence of the adenylate cyclase "G protein" in membranes of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 102: 1187-1195.
	
Lefebvre, P. A., et al. (1981). The role of cell-cell contact in the control of gene expression in Dictyostelium. J. Cell Biol.
	
Lam, T. Y. and C.-H. Siu (1981). "Synthesis of stage-specific glycoproteins in Dictyostelium discoideum during development." Dev. Biol. 83: 127-137.
	
Lam, T. Y., et al. (1981). "Differential cell cohesiveness expressed by prespore and prestalk cells of Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 20: 22-28.
	
Kuriyama, R. (1981). In vitro nucleation of microtubules from nucleus associated body prepared from the cellular slime mold. J. Cell Biol.
	
Kuhn, H. and R. W. Parish (1981). "Fusion of Dictyostelium discoideum cells with one another and with erythrocyte ghosts." Exp. Cell Res. 131: 89-96.
	
Kuczmarski, E. and J. Spudich (1981). Phosphorylation of Dictyostelium myosin: isolation and characterization of specific heavy chain kinase and phosphatase. J. Cell Biol.
	
Kost, R. G., et al. (1981). "Acid proteinases in various species of cellular slime mold." Exp. Mycol. 5: 269-277.
	
Kopachik, W. J. (1981). The regulation of size in cellular slime molds. Princeton, NJ, Princeton University: 129.
	
Knecht, D. A. and R. L. Dimond (1981). "Lysosomal enzymes posses a common antigenic determinant in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 256: 3564-3575.
	
Klein, C. (1981). "Binding of adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate to plasma membranes of Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae." J. Biol. Chem. 256: 10050-10053.
	
Killick, K. A. (1981). "Methods for the rapid purification of trehalase from Dictyostelium discoideum." Prep. Biochem. 11: 547-557.
	
Killick, K. A. (1981). Multiple forms of trehalase from aging sorocarps of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. Electrophoresis '81; Advanced Methods - Biochemical and Clinical Applications. R. C. Allen and P. Arnand. New York, Walter de Gruyter: 721-727.
	
Killick, K. A. (1981). "Purification of Dictyostelium discoideum spores by centrifugation in percoll density gradients with retention of morphological and biochemical integrity." Anal. Biochem. 114: 46-52.
	
Kessin, R. H. (1981). "Conservatism in slime mold development." Cell 27: 241-243.
	
Kay, R. R. and D. J. Trevan (1981). "Dictyostelium amoebae can differentiate into spores without cell-to-cell contact." J. Embryol. Exp. Morph. 62: 369-378.
	
Kay, R. R. (1981). "How cells live together." Nature 294: 108-109.
	
Kanda, F. (1981). "Composition and density of dictyostelid cellular slime molds in the Kushiro Moor, Hokkaido." Jap. J. Ecol. 3: 329-333.
	
Kakebeeke, P. I. J. (1981). "Chemotaxis in de cellulaire slijmschimmels." Vakbl. Biol. 61(3): 65-67.
	
Juliani, M. H. and C. Klein (1981). "A protein kinase of the plasma membrane of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 662: 256-264.
	
Juliani, M. H. and C. Klein (1981). "Photoaffinity labeling of the cell surface adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate receptor of Dictyostelium discoideum and its modification in down-regulated cells." J. Biol. Chem. 256: 613-619.
	
Juliani, M. H., et al. (1981). "cAMP regulation of cell differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum and the role of the cAMP receptor." Dev. Biol. 83: 114-121.
	
Jones, T. H. D. and M. Gupta (1981). "A protein inhibitor of cellulases in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 102: 1310-1316.
	
Johnson, B. A. (1981). The efeects of cyclic-AMP and ammonia on enzyme regulation and membrane differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum. Cambridge, MA, Harvard College: 46.
	
Jamieson, G. and W. Frazier (1981). Dictyostelium calmodulin - structural and functional roles. J. Cell Biol.
	
Jacquet, M., et al. (1981). "Changes in the polyadenylated mRNA population during development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 81: 155-166.
	
Ivatt, R. J., et al. (1981). "Developmental regulation of glycoprotein biosynthesis in Dictyostelium." J. Supramol. Struct. Cell. Biochem. 17: 359-368.
	
Ikeda, T. (1981). "Subcellular distribution of UDP-galactose: polysaccharide transferase and UDP-glucose pyrophosphorylase involved in biosynthesis of prespore-specific acid mucopolysaccharide in Dictyostelium discoideum." Bioch. Biophys. Acta 675: 69-76.
	
Hong, C. B., et al. (1981). "Phototaxis in Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae." Photochem. Photobiol. 33: 373-377.
	
Higgins, R. C. (1981). Regulation of glycogen phosphorylase synthesis in Dictyostelium discoideum. Davis, CA, University of California, Davis (UCDavis): 184.
	
Hayashi, Y. and I. Takeuchi (1981). "Differentiation of various cell types during fruiting body formation of Dictyostelium discoideum." Devel. Growth Differ. 23: 533-542.
	
Hashimoto, Y. (1981). Phototaxis on pseudoplasmodium of the cellular slime mold. Devel. Growth Differ.
	
Hase, A. (1981). "Isolation and characterization of a glycolipid from Dictyostelium discoideum." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 210: 280-288.
	
Hagan, P. S. and M. S. Cohen (1981). "Diffusion-induced morphogenesis in the development of Dictyostelium." J. Theor. Biol. 93: 881-908.
	
Gross, J. D., et al. (1981). "Cell patterning in Dictyostelium." Phil. Trans. R. Soc. Lond. 295: 497-598.
	
Gregg, J. H., et al. (1981). "The regulation of glycoprotein synthesis by cAMP in Dictyostelium." Exp. Cell Res. 134: 389-397.
	
Gregg, J., et al. (1981). A transitional phase in cell differentiation of Dictyostelium. Adv. Cycl. Nucl. Res.
	
Glynn, P. J. (1981). "A quantitative study of the phagocytosis of Escherichia coli by myxamoebae of the slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Cytobios 30: 153-166.
	
Glazer, P. M. and P. C. Newell (1981). "Initiation of aggregation by Dictyostelium discoideum in mutant populations lacking pulsatile signalling." J. Gen. Microbiol. 125: 221-232.
	
Garrod, D. R. and A. Nicol (1981). "Cell behaviour and molecular mechanisms of cell-cell adhesion." Biol. Rev. 56: 199-242.
	
Garcia Gil, M., et al. (1981). CGMP and calmodulin modulate phospholipid transmethylation in Dictyostelium discoideum. Adv. Cycl. Nucl. Res.
	
Galvin, N., et al. (1981). Localization of discoidin I binding sites in living Dictyostelium discoideum cells. J. Cell Biol.
	
Fukui, Y. (1981). Mechanism of the formation of multi-nuclear cells induced by dmso in Dictyostelium. Devel. Growth Differ.
	
Freeze, H. H. and A. L. Miller (1981). "Mod A: A post-translational mutant affecting phosphorylated and sulphated glycopeptides in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cell. Biochem. 35: 17-27.
	
Freeze, H., et al. (1981). Characterization of the uptake of Dictyostelium discoideum alpha-D-mannosidase and beta-D-glucosidase into normal human-fibroblasts. J. Cell Biol.
	
Franke, J. and R. H. Kessin (1981). "The cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase inhibitory protein of Dictyostelium discoideum. Purification and characterization." J. Biol. Chem. 256: 7628-7637.
	
Fisher, P. R. and K. L. Williams (1981). "Activated charcoal and orientation behaviour by Dictyostelium discoideum slugs." J. Gen. Microbiol. 126: 519-523.
	
Fisher, P. R. and K. L. Williams (1981). "Bidirectional phototaxis by Dictyostelium discoideum slugs." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 12: 87-89.
	
Fisher, P. R. (1981). Orientation behaviour by Dictyostelium discoideum slugs., Univ. of Queensland.
	
Fisher, F. R., et al. (1981). "An extracellular chemical signal controlling phototactic behavior by D. discoideum slugs." Cell 23: 799-807.
	
Firtel, R. A., et al. (1981). "Developmentally regulated multigene families in Dictyostelium discoideum." Genetic Engin. 3: 265-318.
	
Firtel, R. (1981). "Multigene families encoding actin and tubulin. (minireview)." Cell 24: 6-7.
	
Finner, R., et al. (1981). "Cyclic AMP inhibits dedifferentiation in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 84: 313-321.
	
Filosa, M. F. and Y. Fukui (1981). "Dimethyl sulfoxide inhibits capping of surface receptors." Cell Biol. Int. Reports 5: 575-579.
	
Feierabend, J., et al. (1981). "Regulation of differentiation in eukaryotic model systems." Eur. J. Cell Biol. 24: 157-159.
	
Favard-Sereno, C., et al. (1981). "Freeze-fracture study of phagocytosis in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 51: 63-84.
	
Fairman, K. R., et al. (1981). Actin binding proteins in the plasma membrane of Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Evers, C. A. and C. M. Palatnik (1981). "A simplified radioactive assay for the enzyme UDP-glucose pyrophosphorylase." Anal. Biochem. 118: 108-112.
	
Erdos, G. (1981). "Virus-like particles in the acrasid cellular slime mold Guttulinopsis vulgaris." Mycologia 73: 785-788.
	
Ennis, H. L. (1981). "Changes in free amino acid levels during cellular slime mold spore and microcyst germination." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 209: 371-375.
	
Ennis, H. L. (1981). "Nogalamycin inhibits ribonucleic acid synthesis in growing and developing cells of the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Antimicrob. Agents Chemother. 19: 657-665.
	
Emery, H. S. and A. M. Weiner (1981). "An irregular satellite sequence is found at the termini of the linear extrachromosomal rDNA in Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell 26: 411-419.
	
Dutton, S. L., et al. (1981). Cyclic AMP analogs as inhibitors of cyclic AMP-phosphodiesterase in Dictyostelium discoideum. Ohio J. Sci.
	
Dingermann, T., et al. (1981). "Reduced aminoacylation of asparagine-transfer RNA early in the developmental cycle of Dictyostelium discoideum: modification pattern and possible significance of the uncharged isoacceptor tRNA3asn." Hoppe-Seyler's Z. Physiol. Chemie 362: 763-773.
	
Dimond, R. L., et al. (1981). "Secretion of lysosomal enzymes in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 256: 6565-6572.
	
Dicou, E. L. and P. Brachet (1981). "Interaction of the inhibitor of the 3',5'-cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase of Dictyostelium discoideum with the Affi-gel blue." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 102: 1172-1179.
	
Dicou, E. and P. Brachet (1981). Cyclic AMP and cyclic GMP phosphodiesterase activities are under separate genetic control in the chemotactically sensitive amoebae of Dictyostelium discoideum. Adv. Cycl. Nucl. Res.
	
Demsar, I. H. and D. A. Cotter (1981). "Physiological effects of ultraviolet light on Dictyostelium discoideum spore germination." Photochem. Photobiol. 34: 455-460.
	
Deasey, M. C. and L. S. Olive (1981). "Role of Golgi apparatus in sorogenesis by the cellular slime mold Fonticula alba." Science 213: 561-563.
	
De Silva, N. S. and C. H. Siu (1981). "Vesicle-mediated transfer of phospholipids to plasma membrane during cell aggregation of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 256: 5845-5850.
	
de Gunzburg, J. and M. Veron (1981). Characterisation of cAMP binding proteins in aggregating Dictyostelium discoideum. Adv. Cycl. Nucl. Res.
	
de Gunzburg, J. and M. Veron (1981). "Intracellular adenosine-3',5'-phosphate binding proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum: partial purification and characterization in aggregation competent cells." Biochemistry 20: 4547-4554.
	
de Chastellier, C. and A. Ryter (1981). "Calcium-dependent deposits at the plasma membrane of Dictyostelium discoideum and their possible relation with contractile proteins." Biol. Cell 40: 109-118.
	
Das, O. P. (1981). Developmental regulation of the plasma membrane proteins of Dictyostelium discoideum. Cambridge, MA, Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT).
	
Das, D. V. M. and G. Weeks (1981). "The inhibition of Dictyostelium discoideum alkaline phosphatase by a low molecular weight factor and its implication for the developmental regulation of the enzyme." FEBS Lett. 130: 249-252.
	
Cripps, M. M. and C. h. L. Rutherford (1981). "A stage-specific inhibitor of adenylate cyclase in Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Cell Res. 133: 309-316.
	
Crean, E. V., et al. (1981). "Lysosomal abnormalities in hadacidin-treated Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae." J. Gen. Microbiol. 123: 253-257.
	
Coukell, M. B. (1981). "Apparent positive cooperativity at a surface cAMP receptor in Dictyostelium." Differentiation 20: 29-35.
	
Cotter, D. A. (1981). Spore activation. The fungal spore: morphogenetic controls. G. Turian and H. R. Hohl. London, Ac. Press: 385-411.
	
Cooper, D. N. and S. H. Barondes (1981). "Isolectins from Dictyostelium purpureum. Purification and characterization of seven functionally distinct forms." J. Biol. Chem. 256: 5046-5051.
	
Condeelis, J., et al. (1981). "A new protein that gels F actin in the cell cortex of Dictyostelium discoideum." Nature 292: 161-163.
	
Condeelis, J. (1981). A new Ca++ and pH regulated actin binding-protein from Dictyostelium amebas. J. Cell Biol.
	
Condeelis, J. (1981). Microfilament-membrane interactions in cell shape and surface architecture. International Cell Biology. H. G. Schweiger. Berlin, Springer: 306-320.
	
Coloma, A. and H. F. Lodish (1981). "Synthesis of spore- and stalk-specific proteins during differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 81: 238-244.
	
Coffman, D. S., et al. (1981). "Phosphoproteins in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Supramol. Struct. Cell. Biochem. 15: 369-385.
	
Clark, J. M. and R. A. Deering (1981). "Excision of pyrimidine dimers from nuclear deoxyribonucleic acid in ultraviolet-irradiated Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cell. Biol. 1: 121-127.
	
Chung, S., et al. (1981). "Synthesis and stability of developmentally regulated Dictyostelium mRNAs are affected by cell-cell contact and cAMP." Cell 24: 785-797.
	
Chang, M. T. and K. B. Raper (1981). "Mating types and macrocyst formation in Dictyostelium rosarium." J. Bacteriol. 147: 1049-1053.
	
Chan, F. K. and M. B. Coukell (1981). "Intracellular cAMP in Dictyostelium discoideum: Characterization of an aggregation-deficient mutant with elevated cAMP pools." Dev. Genet. 2: 369-383.
	
Cavender, J. C., et al. (1981). "The yellow-pigmented Dictyostelia." Am. J. Bot. 68: 373-382.
	
Cardelli, J. A., et al. (1981). "Membrane-bound and free polysomes in Dictyostelium discoideum. I. Isolation and developmental effects on size and distribution." Dev. Biol. 82: 180-185.
	
Cardelli, J. A. and R. L. Dimond (1981). Regulation of protein synthesis during early development of Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Cardelli, J. A. and R. L. Dimond (1981). "Regulation of protein synthesis in Dictyostelium discoideum: effects of starvation and anoxia on initiation." Biochemistry 20: 7391-7398.
	
Cappuccinelli, P., et al. (1981). "Immunofluorescence of microtubular structures during the cell cycle of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 124: 207-211.
	
Burns, R. A., et al. (1981). "Regulation and secretion of early developmentally controlled enzymes during axenic growth in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 84: 407-416.
	
Brown, S. S. (1981). Localization and characterization of cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase during development of Dictyostelium discoideum. Blacksburg, VA, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University: 165.
	
Brown, S. S. (1981). Studies of a 40,000 dalton protein from Dictyostelium discoideum which affects actin assembly properties. J. Cell Biol.
	
Breuer, W. and C. H. Siu (1981). "Identification of endogenous binding proteins for the lectin discoidin-I in Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 78: 2115-2119.
	
Bozzaro, S., et al. (1981). "Characterization of a purified cell surface glycoprotein as a contact site in Polysphondylium pallidum." Exp. Cell Res. 134: 181-191.
	
Borts, R. H. and R. L. Dimond (1981). "The alpha-glucosidases of Dictyostelium discoideum. II. Developmental regulation and cellular localization." Dev. Biol. 87: 185-192.
	
Borts, R. H. and R. L. Dimond (1981). "The alpha-glucosidases of Dictyostelium discoideum. I. Identification and characterization." Dev. Biol. 87: 176-184.
	
Blumberg, D. D. and H. F. Lodish (1981). "Changes in the complexity of nuclear RNA during development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 81: 74-80.
	
Blondelet, M. H. and P. Brachet (1981). "The hydrophobic character of the membrane-bound phosphodiesterase from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 640: 572-582.
	
Bernstein, R. L., et al. (1981). Regulatory interactions of cyclic AMP and folic acid during differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum. Adv. Cycl. Nucl. Res.
	
Bernstein, R. L., et al. (1981). "Extracellular folate deaminase of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 677: 295-302.
	
Bernstein, R. L., et al. (1981). "Folate deaminase and cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase in Dictyostelium discoideum: their regulation by extracellular cyclic AMP and folic acid." Cell Differ. 10: 79-86.
	
Bergmann, K. F., et al. (1981). Control of the number of nuclei per cell in growth of the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Bazari, W. L. and M. Clarke (1981). "Characterization of a novel calmodulin from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 256: 3598-3603.
	
Bazari, W. and M. Clarke (1981). Interaction of calmodulin and myosin in Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Bartles, J. R., et al. (1981). "Purification of a high-affinity discoidin I-binding proteoglycan from axenic Dictyostelium discoideum growth medium." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 674: 372-382.
	
Bartles, J. R. (1981). Carbohydrate and lipid receptors for an endogenous lectin of D. discoideum. St. Louis, MO, Washington University: 241.
	
Barondes, S. H., et al. (1981). "Endogenous lectins in chickens and slime molds: Transfer from intracellular to extracellular sites. (Review)." J. Supramol. Struct. Cell. Biochem. 16: 233-242.
	
Armant, D. R. and C. L. Rutherford (1981). "Copurification of alkaline phosphatase and 5'-AMP specific nucleotidase in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 256: 12710-12718.
	
Aomine, M. (1981). "The amino acid absorption and transport in protozoa." Compar. Biochem. Physiol. 68A: 531-540.
	
Abe, K., et al. (1981). "Differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum mutant cells in a shaken suspension culture and the effect of cyclic AMP." J. Cell Sci. 51: 131-142.
	
Abe, H., et al. (1981). "Discadenine distribution in cellular slime molds and its inhibitory activity on spore germination." Agr. Biol. Chem. 45: 1295-1296.
	
Yamada, H., et al. (1980). "Effect of different growth media on the synthesis of carbohydrate-binding protein from Dictyostelium discoideum NC-4." J. Biochem. 87: 333-338.
	
Wurster, B. and U. Butz (1980). "Reversible binding of the chemoattractant folic acid to cells of Dictyostelium discoideum." Eur. J. Biochem. 109: 613-618.
	
Wright, B. E. and P. F. Davison (1980). "Guest editorial: mechanisms of development and aging." Mech. Age. Devel. 12: 213-219.
	
Wise, J. A. and A. M. Weiner (1980). "Dictyostelium small nuclear RNA D2 is homologous to rat nucleolar RNA U3 and is encoded by a dispersed multigene family." Cell 22: 109-118.
	
Winfree, A. T. (1980). Ch. 15: The aggregation of slime mold amoebae. The geometry of biological time (Biomathematics series). A. T. Winfree. New York, Springer-Verlag: 337-344.
	
Williams, K. L. and D. F. Welker (1980). "Mutations specific to spore maturation in the asexual fruiting body of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Genet. 1: 355-362.
	
Williams, K. L., et al. (1980). "Chromosome fragments in Dictyosteloum discoideum obtained from parasexual crosses between strains of different genetic background." Genetics 95: 289-304.
	
Williams, K. L. (1980). "Examination of the chromosomes of Polysphondylium pallidum following metaphase arrest by benzimidazole derivatives and colchicine." J. Gen. Microbiol. 116: 409-415.
	
Williams, J. G., et al. (1980). "A change in the rate of transcription of a eukaryotic gene in response to cyclic AMP." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 77: 7171-7175.
	
Wild, J. R., et al. (1980). "Developmental changes in uridine nucleotide pools of Dictyostelium discoideum." Tex. J. Sci. 31: 9-18.
	
Widmer, R. M. (1980). Nichthistonproteine von Dictyostelium discoideum: Lokalisierung, Synthese und Phosphorylierung. Zurich, Switzerland, Univ. Zurich: 98.
	
Widmer, R. and R. W. Parish (1980). "Isolation and characterization of nuclear envelope fragments from Dictyostelium." FEBS Lett. 121: 183-187.
	
Whitaker, B. D. and K. L. Poff (1980). "Thermal adaptation of thermosensing and negative thermotaxis in Dictyostelium." Exp. Cell Res. 128: 87-93.
	
Welker, D. L. and K. L. Williams (1980). "Mitotic arrest and chromosome doubling using thiabendazole, cambendazole, nocodazole, and ben late in the slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 116: 397-407.
	
Welker, D. L. and K. L. Williams (1980). "The assignment of four new loci, including the coumarin sensitivity locus couA, to linkage group VII of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 120: 149-159.
	
Welker, D. L. and K. L. Williams (1980). "Bacillus subtilus sensitivity loci in Dictyostelium discoideum." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 9: 179-183.
	
Weeks, G. and F. G. Herring (1980). "The lipid composition and membrane fluidity of Dictyostelium discoideum plasma membranes at various stages during differentiation." J. Lipid. Res. 21: 681-686.
	
Webster, J. (1980). Part one: Myxomycota. Slime moulds and similar organisms. Introduction to fungi (second edition). Cambridge, Cambridge Univ. Press: 7-53.
	
Waddell, D. R. (1980). Studies of dissociated cells in the slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum. Iowa City, IA, The University ofIowa: 243.
	
Vogel, G., et al. (1980). "Mechanism of phagocytosis in Dictyostelium discoideum: Phagocytosis is mediated by different recognition sites as disclosed by mutants with altered phagocytotic properties." J. Cell Biol. 86: 456-465.
	
Vince, S. and D. Gingell (1980). "Cationic modulation of the interaction of Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae with glass. Evidence from quantitative interference reflection microscopy." Exp. Cell Res. 126: 462-465.
	
Vandekerckhove, J. and K. Weber (1980). "Vegetative Dictyostelium cells containing 17 actin genes express a single major actin." Nature 284: 475-477.
	
Toda, K., et al. (1980). "Surface labeling of membrane glycoproteins and their drastic changes during development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Eur. J. Biochem. 111: 377-388.
	
Tisa, L. S. and D. A. Cotter (1980). "Expression of glycosidase activities during germination of Dictyostelium discoideum spores." J. Bacteriol. 141: 436-442.
	
Tirtahadi (1980). Orientatie opzuivering cGMP phosphodiesterase uit amoebae van Dictyostelium discoideum. Leiden, RUL: 1-6.
	
Thomas, D. A. and R. Emyanioff (1980). Incorporation of carbon-14 labeled glucose and carbon-14 labeled ribose into saccharide end products and RNA during development in Dictyostelium discoideum. Annu. Meet. Am. Soc. Microbiol.
	
Thilo, L. and G. Vogel (1980). Kinetics of membrane flow: internalization, recycling and net transfer of membrane. Eur. J. Cell Biol.
	
Thilo, L. and G. Vogel (1980). "Kinetics of membrane internalization and recycling during pinocytosis in Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 77: 1015-1019.
	
Thiery, S. P. and S. B. Slimane (1980). "Le chimiotactisme." Biochimie 62: Iii-Viii.
	
Taya, Y., et al. (1980). "Correlation between acrasins and spore germination inhibitors in cellular slime molds." J. Bacteriol. 143: 715-719.
	
Takiya, S., et al. (1980). "A rapid and facile procedure for the purification of DNA-dependent RNA polymerases I and II of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Fac. Sci., Hokkaido Univ. Ser. V (Bot.) 12: 111-122.
	
Takiya, S., et al. (1980). "Template specificity of DNA-dependent RNA polymerases I and II for synthetic polynucleotides during development of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biochem. 87: 1501-1509.
	
Steinemann, C. and R. W. Parish (1980). "Evidence that a developmentally regulated glycoprotein is targed of adhesion-blocking Fab in reaggregating Dictyostelium." Nature 286: 621-623.
	
Srinivas, U. K. and E. R. Katz (1980). "Oxygen utilization in Dictyostelium discoideum." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 9: 53-55.
	
Springer, W. R., et al. (1980). "Endogenous cell surface lectin in Dictyostelium: Quantitation, elution by sugar, and elicitation by divalent immunoglobulin." J. Cell Biol. 87: 682-690.
	
Springer, W. and S. Barondes (1980). "Cell adhesion molecules: detection with univalent second antibody." J. Cell Biol. 87: 703-707.
	
Spiegel, F. W. and E. C. Cox (1980). "A one-dimensional pattern in the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium pallidum." Nature 286: 806-807.
	
Sogin, M. L. and G. J. Olsen (1980). "Identification and mapping of a 60 bp EcoRI fragment in the Dictyostelium discoideum ribosomal DNA." Gene 8: 231-238.
	
Smith, E. and K. Williams (1980). "Evidence for tip control of the "slug/fruit" switch in slugs of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Embryol. Exp. Morphol. 57: 233-240.
	
Simpson, P. A. and J. A. Spudich (1980). "ATP-driven steady-state exchange of monomeric and filamentous actin from Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 77: 4610-4613.
	
Shinnick, T. M. and R. A. Lerner (1980). "The cbpA gene: Role of the 26,000-dalton carbohydrate-binding protein in intercellular cohesion of developing Dictyostelium discoideum cells." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 77: 4788-4792.
	
Schaap, P. and L. van der Molen (1980). "Membrane modulations during development of Dictyostelium minutum." Electron Microsc. 2: 42-43.
	
Scandella, D., et al. (1980). "Genetic, biochemical, and developmental studies of nystatin resistant mutants in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Gen. Genet. 180: 67-75.
	
Ryter, A. and R. Hellio (1980). "Electron-microscope study of Dictyostelium discoideum plasma membrane and its modifications during and after phagocytosis." J. Cell Sci. 41: 75-88.
	
Rubino, S., et al. (1980). "Immunofluorescenza del sistema dei microtubuli durante la mitosi di Dictyostelium discoideum." Atti Assoc. Genet. Ital. 26: 257-259.
	
Rowekamp, W., et al. (1980). "Analysis of the multigene family coding the developmentally regulated carbohydrate-binding protein discoidin-I in Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell 20: 495-505.
	
Rowekamp, W. and R. A. Firtel (1980). "Isolation of developmentally regulated genes from Dictyostelium." Dev. Biol. 79: 409-418.
	
Rossier, C., et al. (1980). Biochemical regulation of cell development and aggregation in Dictyostelium discoideum. The eukaryotic microbial cell. G. W. Gooday, D. Lloyd and A. P. J. Trinci. Cambridge, Cambridge Univ. Press: 405-424.
	
Rossier, C. (1980). Extracellular control of development in Dictyostelium discoideum. Experientia.
	
Roos, U. P., et al. (1980). Computer-assisted reconstruction of the mitotic spindle of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. Experientia.
	
Roos, U. P. (1980). The spindle of cellular slime molds. Microtubules and microtubule inhibitors. M. De Brabander and J. De Mey. Amsterdam, Elsevier/North-Holland: 385-398.
	
Robson, G. E. and K. L. Williams (1980). "The mating system of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Curr. Genet. 1: 229-232.
	
Ramagopal, S. and H. L. Ennis (1980). "Studies on ribosomal proteins in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. Resolution, nomenclature and molecular weights of proteins in the 40-S and 60-S ribosomal subunits." Eur. J. Biochem. 105: 245-258.
	
Quiviger, B., et al. (1980). "Comparative cytochemical localization of alkaline and acid phosphatases during starvation and differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biol. Cellulaire 37: 241-250.
	
Podgorski, G. and R. A. Deering (1980). "Quantitation of induced mutation in Dictyostelium discoideum. Characterization and use of a methanol-resistance mutation assay." Mutation Res. 74: 459-468.
	
Podgorski, G. and R. A. Deering (1980). "Effect of methyl methanesulfonate on survival of radiation-sensitive strains of Dictyostelium discoideum." Mutation Res. 73: 415-418.
	
Pistel, F., et al. (1980). Functional role of ribothymidine in tRNA during protein synthesis in developing lower plants. Eur. J. Cell Biol.
	
Parish, R. W. and M. Weibel (1980). "Extracellular ATP, ecto-ATPase and calcium influx in Dictyostelium discoideum cells." FEBS Lett. 118: 263-266.
	
Parish, R. W., et al. (1980). "Electrophoretic isolation of nucleosomes from Dictyostelium nuclei and nucleoli." FEBS Lett. 110: 236-240.
	
Pan, Y. H. and J. T. Shih (1980). "Studies on the histones of cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum AX-3 during its early life cycle." Natl. Sci. Counc. Monthly, ROC 8: 616-626.
	
Palatnik, C. M., et al. (1980). "Messenger RNA stability in Dictyostelium discoideum; does poly(A) have a regulatory role?" J. Mol. Biol. 141: 99-118.
	
Othmer, H. G. and E. Pate (1980). "Scale-invariance in reaction-diffusion models of spatial pattern formation." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 77: 4180-4184.
	
O'Day, D. H. and A. J. Durston (1980). "Sorogen elongation and side branching during fruiting body development in Polysphondylium pallidum." Can. J. Microbiol. 26: 959-965.
	
O'Connor, K. A., et al. (1980). A temperature sensitive mutation in Dictyostelium discoideum which affects spore differentiation. J. Cell. Biol.
	
Nozu, K., et al. (1980). "Viability of the spores formed after UV irradiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Photochem. Photobiol. 32: 261-263.
	
North, M. J. and S. Murray (1980). "Cellular slime mould polyamines: species specificity of 1; 3-diaminopropane." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 9: 271-274.
	
Neumann, E., et al. (1980). "Cell fusion induced by high electric impulses applied to Dictyostelium." Naturwissenschaften 67: 414-415.
	
Murata, Y. and T. Ohnishi (1980). "Dictyostelium discoideum fruiting bodies observed by scanning electron microscopy." J. Bacteriol. 141: 956-958.
	
Morrissey, J. H., et al. (1980). "New loci in Dictyostelium discoideum determining pigment formation and growth on Bacillus subtilis." Genetics 96: 115-123.
	
Morrissey, J. H. (1980). A study of spatial differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum. La Jolla, University of California, San Diego (UCSD): 184.
	
Michrina, C. A. and R. A. Deering (1980). "Thymidine kinase activity in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 119: 263-266.
	
Mercer, J. A. and D. R. Soll (1980). "The complexity and reversibility of the timer for the onset of aggregation in Dictyostelium." Differentiation 16: 117-124.
	
Meagher, R. and J. Devay (1980). Soluble sugars in dormant and germinating Dictyostelium discoideum spores. Abstracts Papers Am. Chem. Soc.
	
McDonough, J. P., et al. (1980). "Species-specific cell cohesion in cellular slime molds." Exp. Cell Res. 125: 1-14.
	
Mato, J. M. and A. L. Steiner (1980). "Immuno histochemical localization of cyclic AMP, cyclic GMP and calmodulin in Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Biol. Int. Reports 4: 641-648.
	
Marin, F. T. and F. G. Rothman (1980). "Regulation of development in Dictyostelium discoideum: IV. Effect of ions on the rate of differentiation and cellular response to cyclic AMP." J. Cell Biol. 87: 823-827.
	
Marin, F. T., et al. (1980). "Regulation of development in Dictyostelium discoideum: III. Carbohydrate-specific intercellular interactions in early development." Dev. Biol. 80: 301-312.
	
Margolskee, J. P. and H. F. Lodish (1980). "Half-lives of mRNA species during growth and differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 74: 37-49.
	
Margolskee, J. P. and H. F. Lodish (1980). "The regulation of the synthesis of actin and two other proteins induced early in Dictyostelium discoideum development." Dev. Biol. 74: 50-64.
	
Margolskee, J. P., et al. (1980). "The effects of cell density and starvation on early developmental events in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 74: 409-421.
	
Manrow, R. E. and R. P. Dottin (1980). "Renaturation and localization of enzymes in polyacrylamide gels: Studies with UDP-glucose pyrophosphorylase of Dictyostelium." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 77: 730-734.
	
Maeda, Y. (1980). "Changes in charged groups on the cell surface during development of cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum: an electron microscopic study." Devel. Growth Differ. 22: 679-685.
	
MacLeod, C. L. and W. F. Loomis (1980). "Attempts to isolate mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum which express alpha-mannosidase-2 constitutively." J. Gen. Microbiol. 120: 273-277.
	
MacLeod, C., et al. (1980). "Regulation of actin gene expression during spore germination in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 76: 263-274.
	
Machon, A., et al. (1980). Biosynthesis of phosphatidylinositol in the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum by a CTP-independent pathway. Biochem. Soc. Trans.
	
Loomis, W. F. and S. Wheeler (1980). "Heat shock response of Dictyostelium." Dev. Biol. 79: 399-408.
	
Loomis, W. F. (1980). "A beta-glucosidase gene of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Genet. 1: 241-246.
	
Loomis, W. F. (1980). Genetic analysis of development in Dictyostelium. The molecular genetics of development. T. Leighton and W. F. Loomis. New York, Ac. Press: 179-212.
	
Lonski, J. (1980). "Cellular slime molds in soils of a Caribbean Island: St. John, U.S.V.I." J. Coll. Virgin Isl. 6: 50-59.
	
Longmore, K. and D. J. Watts (1980). "Control of N-acetylglucosaminidase specific activity in myxamoebae of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 78: 104-112.
	
Landfear, S. M. and H. F. Lodish (1980). "A role for cAMP in expression of developmentally regulated genes in Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 77: 1044-1048.
	
Kuserk, F. T. (1980). "The relationship between cellular slime molds and bacteria in forest soil." Ecology 61: 1474-1485.
	
Kuczmarski, E. R. and J. A. Spudich (1980). "Regulation of myosin self-assembly: phosphorylation of Dictyostelium heavy chain inhibits formation of thick filaments." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 77: 7292-7296.
	
Koziol, J. A., et al. (1980). "Quantitation of selective cell-cell adhesion and its application to assays of species-specific adhesion in cellular slime molds." Exp. Cell Res. 128: 375-381.
	
Konno, R. (1980). "Aggregateless mutant defective in signaling and relaying in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Devel. Growth Differ. 22: 125-132.
	
Komuniecki, P. R., et al. (1980). "ADP phosphorylation and glutamate oxidation in mitochondria isolated from Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 96: 1017-1923.
	
Klein, C. (1980). "cAMP-independent oscillations of adenylate cyclase in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 79: 500-507.
	
Kimmel, A. R. and R. A. Firtel (1980). "Intervening sequences in a Dictyostelium gene that encodes a low abundance class mRNA." Nucl. Acids Res. 8: 5599-5610.
	
Kilpatrick, D. C., et al. (1980). "The effect of chymotrypsin on the development of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Embryol. Exp. Morphol. 57: 189-201.
	
Killick, K. A. and L. W. Wang (1980). "The localization of trehalase [EC-3.2.1.28] in polyacrylamide gels with eugenol by a coupled enzyme assay." Anal. Biochem. 106: 367-372.
	
Killick, K. A. (1980). "Development and evaluation of methods for the quantitative estimation of fungal trehalose with a charcoal-gas-liquid chromatographic-coupled assay." Carbohydr. Res. 82: 1-13.
	
Killick, K. A. (1980). "Coupled, continuous and discontinuous fluorometric assays for trehalase activity." Anal. Biochem. 105: 291-298.
	
Killick, K. A. (1980). "Polyribonucleotide phosphorylase from Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Mycol. 4: 181-185.
	
Kielman, J. K. and R. A. Deering (1980). "Ultraviolet light-induced inhibition of cell division and DNA synthesis in axenically grown repair mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum." Photochem. Photobiol. 32: 149-156.
	
Kawai, S. (1980). "Induction of cAMP receptors by disaggregation of the multicellular complexes of Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Cell Res. 122: 153-158.
	
Kawai, S. (1980). "Folic acid increases the cAMP binding activity of Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 109: 27-30.
	
Kawabe, K. (1980). "Occurrence and distribution of dictyostelid cellular slime molds in the Southern Alps of Japan." Jap. J. Ecol. 30: 183-187.
	
Katz, M. and R. Lasek (1980). "Guidance cue patterns and cell migration in multicellular organisms. (Invited review)." Cell Motil. 1: 141-157.
	
Kakebeeke, P. I. J., et al. (1980). "Folic acid deaminase activity during development in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Bacteriol. 143: 307-312.
	
Kakebeeke, P. I. J., et al. (1980). "A novel chemotaxis regulating enzyme that splits folic acid into 6-hydroxymethylpterin and P-aminobenzoylglutamic acid." FEBS Lett. 115: 216-220.
	
Kakebeeke, P. I. J. (1980). Chemotaxis signals during differentiation in the cellular slime molds. Leiden, RUL.
	
Jacobson, B. S. (1980). "Improved method for isolation of plasma membrane on cationic beads." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 600: 769-780.
	
Jacobson, B. S. (1980). "Actin binding to the cytoplasmic surface of the plasma membrane isolated from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 97: 1493-1498.
	
Ishikawa, A., et al. (1980). "Acquisition of competence for culmination during finger formation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Devel. Growth Differ. 22: 21-24.
	
Ishida, S. (1980). "The effects of cyclic AMP on differentiation of a mutant Dictyostelium discoideum capable of developing without morphogenesis." Devel. Growth Differ. 22: 781-788.
	
Ishida, S. (1980). "A mutant of Dictyostelium discoideum capable of differentiating without morphogenesis." Devel. Growth Differ. 22: 143-152.
	
Irvine, R. F., et al. (1980). "Phosphatidylinositol-degrading enzymes in the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 121: 495-497.
	
Inouye, K. and I. Takeuchi (1980). "Motive force of the migrating pseudoplasmodium of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 41: 53-64.
	
Ihara, M., et al. (1980). "Developmental regulation of cytokinin, spore germination inhibitor discadenine and related enzymes in Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Cell Res. 126: 273-278.
	
Hori, H., et al. (1980). "The nucleotide sequence of 5S rRNA from a cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Nucl. Acids Res. 8: 5535-5539.
	
Hoetzer, K. E. and R. A. Deering (1980). "Sensitization of rad mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum to ultraviolet light by post irradiation treatment with caffeine." Mutation Res. 71: 273-276.
	
Hodge, H. L. and E. F. Rossomando (1980). "Degradation of ATP by membrane-bound enzymatic activities in Dictyostelium discoideum monitored by high-pressure liquid chromatography." Anal. Biochem. 102: 59-62.
	
Herring, F. G., et al. (1980). "The fluidity of plasma membranes of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 602: 1-9.
	
Hellio, R. and A. Ryter (1980). "Relationships between anionic sites and lectin receptors in the plasma membrane of Dictyostelium discoideum and their role in phagocytosis." J. Cell Sci. 41: 89-104.
	
Hashimoto, Y. and M. Wada (1980). "Comparative study of the sensitivity of spores and amoebae of Dictyostelium discoideum to ultraviolet light." Radiat. Res. 83: 688-695.
	
Hase, A. and K. I. Ono (1980). "The subunit composition of discoidins." J. Fac. Sci., Hokkaido Univ. Ser. V. (Bot.) 12: 129-134.
	
Hase, A. (1980). "Effects of ethanol on spore germination and cell growth of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Fac. Sci., Hokkaido Univ. Ser. V (Bot.) 12: 123-128.
	
Hader, D. P., et al. (1980). "Responses to light by a nonphototactic mutant of Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Mycol. 4: 382-385.
	
Hader, D. P. and K. L. Poff (1980). "Effects of ionophores and TPMP on light-induced responses in Dictyostelium discoideum." Arch. Microbiol. 126: 97-101.
	
Gustafson, G. L. and L. A. Milner (1980). "Immunological relationship between beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase and proteinase I from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 94: 1439-1444.
	
Gustafson, G. L. and L. A. Milner (1980). "Occurrence of N-Acetylglucosamine-1-phosphate in proteinase I from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 255: 7208-7210.
	
Grainger, R. M. and N. Maizels (1980). "Dictyostelium ribosomal RNA is processed during transcription." Cell 20: 619-623.
	
Goldbeter, A. and L. A. Segel (1980). "Control of developmental transitions in the cyclic AMP signalling system of Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 17: 127-135.
	
Goldbeter, A. and J. L. Martiel (1980). Role of receptor desensitization in the mechanism of cAMP oscillations in Dictyostelium. Fed. Proc.
	
Goldbeter, A. (1980). Models for oscillations and excitability in biochemical systems. Mathematical models in molecular and cellular biology. L. A. Segel. Cambridge, Cambridge Univ. Press: 248-291.
	
Gingell, D. and S. Vince (1980). Long-range forces and adhesion: an analysis of cell-substratum studies. Cell adhesion and motility. A. S. G. Curtis and J. D. Pitts. Cambridge, UK, Cambridge Univ. Press: 1-37.
	
Gerisch, G., et al. (1980). Analysis of cell adhesion in Dictyostelium and Polysphondylium by the use of Fab. Cell Adhesion and Motility. A. S. G. Curtis and J. D. Pitts. Cambridge, UK, Cambridge Univ. Press: 293-307.
	
Gerisch, G. (1980). Spatiotemporal patterns generated by the cyclic AMP-signal system in aggregating Dictyostelium cells. Kybernetik 1980. Kooperative Systeme in Biologie und Technik. H. J. Jensen. Munich, Germany, Oldenbourg Verlag: 172-175.
	
Gerisch, G. (1980). "Periodische Enzymaktivierung als Kontrollfaktor multizellularer Entwicklung." Rheinisch-Westfalische Akademie der Wissenschaften N 292: 7-38.
	
Gerisch, G. (1980). Univalent antibody fragments as tools for the analysis of cell interactions in Dictyostelium. Current Topics in Developmental Biology. M. Friedlander. New York, Ac. Press: 243-270.
	
Geltosky, J. E., et al. (1980). "Glycoprotein involved in aggregation of Dictyostelium discoideum is distributed on the cell surface in a non-random fashion favoring cell junctions." Cell 21: 339-345.
	
Garcia Gil, M., et al. (1980). "Calmodulin modulates phospholipid methylation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 94: 1325-1330.
	
Fukui, Y. and H. Katsumura (1980). "Dynamics of nuclear actin bundle induction by dimethyl sulfoxide and factors affecting its development." J. Cell Biol. 84: 131-140.
	
Fukui, Y. (1980). "Formation of multinuclear cells induced by dimethyl sulfoxide: Inhibition of cytokinesis and occurrence of novel nuclear division in Dictyostelium cells." J. Cell Biol. 86: 181-189.
	
Freeze, H. H., et al. (1980). "Acid hydrolases from Dictyostelium discoideum contain phosphomannosyl recognition markers." J. Biol. Chem. 255: 11081-11084.
	
Frantz, C. E. (1980). "P2: A behavioural mutant of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 43: 341-366.
	
Francis, D. and L. Lin (1980). "Heat shock response in a cellular slime mold, Polysphondylium pallidum." Dev. Biol. 79: 238-242.
	
Francis, D. (1980). "Techniques and marker genes for use in macrocyst genetics with Polysphondylium pallidum." Genetics 96: 125-136.
	
Erdos, E. W. and H. R. Hohl (1980). "Freeze-fracture examination of the plasma membrane of the cellular slime mould Polysphondylium pallidum during microcyst formation and germination." Cytobios 29: 7-16.
	
Ellingson, J. S. (1980). "Identification of N-acylethanolamine phosphoglycerides and acylphosphatidylglycerol as the phospholipids which disappear as Dictyostelium discoideum cells aggregate." Biochemistry 19: 6176-6182.
	
Durston, A. J. and C. J. Weijer (1980). "Dictyostelium discoideum: een model systeem voor de embryonale ontwikkeling." Vakbl. Biol. 60(16): 320-327.
	
Dudock, B., et al. (1980). "Base composition of transfer RNAs from vegetative and developing cells of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 608: 295-300.
	
Dowbenko, D. J. and H. L. Ennis (1980). "Regulation of protein synthesis during spore germination in Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 77: 1791-1795.
	
Dobbe, F. (1980). Intracellulair cyclisch nucleotide phosphodiesterase in de cellulaire slijmschimmels Dictyostelium lacteum, Dictyostelium discoideum en Agip 55. Leiden, R.U. Leiden.
	
Dingermann, T., et al. (1980). Early developmental changes in tRNA of Dictyostelium discoideum. Biochem. Soc. Trans.
	
Dingermann, T., et al. (1980). "Functional role of ribosylthymine in transfer RNA. Preferential utilization of tRNAs containing ribosylthymine instead of uridine at position 54 on protein synthesis of Dictyostelium discoideum." Eur. J. Biochem. 104: 33-44.
	
Dingermann, T., et al. (1980). Uncharged asparaginyl-tRNA isoacceptors in Dictyostelium discoideum as an early event after the onset of development. Eur. J. Cell Biol.
	
Dinauer, M. C., et al. (1980). "Cyclic 3',5'-AMP relay in Dictyostelium discoideum. V. Adaptation of the cAMP signaling response during cAMP stimulation." J. Cell Biol. 86: 554-561.
	
Dinauer, M. C., et al. (1980). "Cyclic 3',5'-AMP relay in Dictyostelium discoideum IV. Recovery of the signaling response after cAMP stimulation." J. Cell Biol. 86: 545-553.
	
Dinauer, M. C., et al. (1980). "Cyclic 3',5'-AMP relay in Dictyostelium discoideum III. The relationship of cAMP synthesis and secretion during the cAMP signaling response." J. Cell Biol. 86: 537-544.
	
Dicou, E. L. and P. Brachet (1980). "A separate phosphodiesterase for the hydrolysis of cyclic guanosine 3',5'-monophosphate in growing Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae." Eur. J. Biochem. 109: 507-514.
	
de Wit, R. J. W. (1980). Binding characteristics of the two different cAMP binding sites on the regulatory subunit of rabbit skeletal muscle protein kinase type I. Leiden, RUL.
	
De Silva, N. S. and C. H. Siu (1980). "Preferential incorporation of phospholipids into plasma membranes during cell aggregation of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 255: 8489-8496.
	
de Gunzburg, J., et al. (1980). "Non-Michaelian kinetics of adenylate cyclase in Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Biol. Int. Reports 4: 533-540.
	
de Gunzburg, J. and M. Veron (1980). Changes in cAMP binding proteins upon contact formation in developing Dictyostelium discoideum. Eur. J. Cell Biol.
	
de Chastellier, C. and A. Ryter (1980). Calcium-dependent deposits at the plasma membrane of Dictyostelium discoideum. Eur. J. Cell Biol.
	
de Chastellier, C. and A. Ryter (1980). "Characteristic ultrastructural transformations upon starvation of Dictyostelium discoideum and their relations with aggregation. Study of wild type amoebae and aggregation mutant." Biol. Cellulaire 38: 121-128.
	
Das, D. V. M. and G. Weeks (1980). "Reversible heat activation of alkaline phosphatase of Dictyostelium discoideum and its developmental implication." Nature 288: 166-168.
	
Das, D. V. M., et al. (1980). "The effect of growth temperature on the lipid composition and differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum." Can. J. Microbiol. 26: 796-799.
	
Cutler, L. S. and C. P. Christian (1980). "Cytochemical localization of adenylate cyclase." J. Histochem. Cytochem. 28: 62-65.
	
Coukell, M. B. and F. K. Chan (1980). "The precocious appearance and activation of an adenylate cyclase in a rapid developing mutant of Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 110: 39-42.
	
Cornejo Anze, H. J. J. (1980). Chemotaxis and cell motility in Dictyostelium discoideum. Chicago, IL, The University of Chicago.
	
Cooper, S., et al. (1980). "Identification and characterization of the adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate binding proteins appearing during the development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 629: 235-242.
	
Cone, R. D. and J. T. Bonner (1980). "Evidence for aggregation center induction by the ionophore A23187 in the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium violaceum." Exp. Cell Res. 128: 479-485.
	
Condeelis, J. S. (1980). Microfilament membrane interactions in cell shape and surface architecture. Eur. J. Cell. Biol.
	
Clarke, M., et al. (1980). "Isolation and properties of calmodulin from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Bacteriol. 141: 397-400.
	
Clark, R. L., et al. (1980). "Novel morphogenesis in Ax-3, a mutant strain of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 121: 319-331.
	
Clark, J. M. and R. A. Deering (1980). Enzymatic removal of pyrimidine dimers from nuclear DNA in UV irradiated Dictyostelium discoideum. Radiat. Res.
	
Chan, A. H. and D. A. Cotter (1980). "An improved coupled assay for detecting glucose released by acid glucosidases." Microbios Lett. 15: 7-15.
	
Chagla, A. H., et al. (1980). "Ca2+ and cell fusion during sexual development in liquid cultures of Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Cell Res. 126: 501-505.
	
Cavender, J. C. (1980). "Cellular slime molds of the southern Appalachians." Mycologia 72: 55-63.
	
Brown, S. S. and J. A. Spudich (1980). Purification of a calcium sensitive 38,000 dalton protein from Dictyostelium discoideum which affects the assembly state of actin. J. Cell Biol.
	
Brown, S. S. and C. L. Rutherford (1980). "Localization of cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase in the multicellular stages of Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 16: 173-183.
	
Breuer, W. and C. H. Siu (1980). Identification of endogenous glycoprotein receptors for discoidin in Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Bredehorst, R., et al. (1980). "Protein-bound mono(ADP-ribose) residues in differentiating cells of Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Differ. 9: 95-103.
	
Braggaar-Schaap, P. and L. G. van der Molen (1980). Organelle transformation and membrane changes in Dictyostelium minutum, a cellular slime mold. Ultramicrosc.
	
Boublik, M. and S. Ramagopal (1980). "Conformation of ribosomes from the vegetative amoebae and spores of Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Gen. Genet. 179: 483-488.
	
Bonner, J. T. (1980). The evolution of culture in animals. Princeton, NJ, Princeton Univ. Press.
	
Blumberg, D. D. and H. F. Lodish (1980). "Complexity of nuclear and polysomal RNA's in growing Dictyostelium discoideum cells." Dev. Biol. 78: 268-284.
	
Blumberg, D. D. and H. F. Lodish (1980). "Changes in the messenger RNA population during differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 78: 285-300.
	
Bernstein, R. L. and R. van Driel (1980). Degradation of the chemoattractant folic acid by Dictyostelium discoideum. Eur. J. Cell. Biol.
	
Bernstein, R. L. and R. van Driel (1980). "Control of folate deaminase activity of Dictyostelium discoideum by cyclic AMP." FEBS Lett. 119: 249-253.
	
Bazari, W. and M. Clarke (1980). Calmodulin from Dictyostelium discoideum. Ann. NY Acad. Sci.
	
Batts-Young, B., et al. (1980). "Similarity of the primary sequences of ribosomal RNAs isolated from vegetative and developing cells of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 78: 352-364.
	
Bartles, J. R. and W. A. Frazier (1980). "Preparation of 125I-discoidin I and the properties of its binding to Dictyostelium discoideum cells." J. Biol. Chem. 255: 30-38.
	
Barra, J., et al. (1980). "pdsA, a gene involved in the production of active phosphodiesterase during starvation of Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae." Mol. Gen. Genet. 177: 607-613.
	
Barondes, S. H. (1980). Endogenous cell-surface lectins: evidence that they are cell adhesion molecules. The cell surface: mediator of developmental processes (38th symp. soc. dev. biol.). S. Subtelny and N. K. Wessells. New York, Ac. Press: 349-363.
	
Barondes, S. H. (1980). Developmentally regulated lectins in slime moulds and chick tissues: are they cell-adhesion molecules? Cell adhesion and motility. A. S. G. Curtis and J. D. Pitts. Cambridge, UK, Cambridge Univ. Press: 309-328.
	
Baril, E. F., et al. (1980). "A B-like DNA polymerase activity in the slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 77: 3317-3321.
	
Armant, D. R., et al. (1980). "Cell surface localization of 5'-AMP nucleotidase in prestalk cells of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 45: 119-129.
	
Armant, D. R. (1980). Purification, characterization and localization of 5'AMP nucleotidase during pattern formation in Dictyostelium discoideum. Blacksburg, VA, Virginia Polytechnic Institute and State University: 108.
	
Aramaki, Y., et al. (1980). "Isolation and characterization of a carbohydrate binding protein from Dictyostelium discoideum NC-4 deficient in normal discoidin synthesis." J. Biochem. 87: 1145-1151.
	
Alemany, S., et al. (1980). "Regulation by guanosine 3':5'-cyclic monophosphate of phospholipid methylation during chemotaxis in Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 77: 6996-6999.
	
Younis, M. S., et al. (1979). "Hydroxyproline in the life cycle of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Univ. Kuwait (Sci) 6: 109-114.
	
Yamasaki, F. and H. Hayashi (1979). "Probable sites of action of cAMP in the induction of phosphodiesterase in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biochem. 86: 971-977.
	
Wurster, B., et al. (1979). "Cyclic GMP and cyclic AMP changes in response to folic acid pulses during cell development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Differ. 8: 235-242.
	
Wright, B. E., et al. (1979). "The effects of exogenous glucose, uracil, and inorganic phosphate on differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 192: 489-499.
	
Wright, B. E. (1979). "Causality in biological systems." TIBS 4: N110-N111.
	
Worley, A. C., et al. (1979). "Fonticula alba: a new cellular slime mold (Acrasiomycetes)." Mycologia 71: 746-760.
	
Williams, J. G., et al. (1979). "Characterization and transcription analysis of a cloned sequence derived from a major developmentally regulated mRNA of D. discoideum." Cell 17: 903-913.
	
Williams, J. G. and M. M. Lloyd (1979). "Changes in the abundance of polyadenylated RNA during slime mold development measured using cloned molecular hybridization probes." J. Mol. Biol. 129: 19-35.
	
Widmer, R., et al. (1979). "Biochemical evidence for a distinctive chromatin structure in nucleoli of Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 106: 363-369.
	
White, E., et al. (1979). "CIPC resistant mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Biol. 83: 341a.
	
Whitaker, B. D. (1979). Studies on thermotaxis by pseudoplasmodia of Dictyostelium discoideum. East Lansing, MI, Michigan State University: 133.
	
West, C. M. and D. McMahon (1979). "The axial distribution of plasma membrane molecules in pseudoplasmodia of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Cell Res. 124: 393-401.
	
Welker, D. L. and R. A. Deering (1979). "In vivo nicking and rejoining of nuclear DNA in ultraviolet-irradiated radiation-resistant and sensitive strains of Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Gen. Genet. 167: 259-263.
	
Welker, D. L. and R. A. Deering (1979). "Interactions between radiation-sensitive mutations in double-mutant haploids of Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Gen. Genet. 167: 265-270.
	
Weiss, E. and V. Braun (1979). "Actin-like protein of the cytoplasm in the chromatin of Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 108: 233-236.
	
Washington, A. C. and V. Wynne (1979). "Influence of folic acid on growth and development in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Tex. J. Sci. 31: 177-186.
	
Washington, A. C. and J. A. Davis (1979). "Synthesis of trehalose-6-phosphate synthetase during growth and development in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Tex. J. Sci. 31: 172-176.
	
Wallace, M. A. and K. B. Raper (1979). "Genetic exchanges in the macrocysts of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 113: 327-337.
	
Wallace, L. J. and W. A. Frazier (1979). "Photoaffinity labeling of cyclic-AMP- and AMP-binding proteins of differentiating Dictyostelium discoideum cells." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 76: 4250-4254.
	
Wallace, L. J. and W. A. Frazier (1979). "Direct and enzyme-mediated photoaffinity labeling of membrane-associated actin in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 254: 10109-10114.
	
Virgin, H. W., et al. (1979). Calcium binding proteins from contracted pellets of D. discoideum extracts. J. Cell Biol.
	
Veron, M. and P. Brachet (1979). "Characterization of a 5'-AMP binding site in purified membranes from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 91: 699-706.
	
Venieratos, D. and A. Goldbeter (1979). "Allosteric oscillatory enzymes: influence of the number of protomers on metabolic periodicities." Biochimie 61: 1247-1256.
	
Unger, E., et al. (1979). "Immunofluorescence of the tubulin system in cellular slime molds." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 6: 317-320.
	
Uchiyama, S., et al. (1979). "Repression of rRNA synthesis induced by disaggregation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 562: 103-111.
	
Turner, R., et al. (1979). "Putrescine uptake by the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. J. 180: 119-127.
	
Turner, C. (1979). The ecology and identification of dictyostelid cellular slime moulds in South-Western England. Bristol, U.K., University of Bristol.
	
Tsang, A. S. and M. B. Coukell (1979). "Biochemical and genetic evidence for two extracellular adenosine 3':5'-monophosphate phosphodiesterases in Dictyostelium purpureum." Eur. J. Biochem. 95: 407-417.
	
Tsang, A. S. and M. B. Coukell (1979). "Direct evidence for adenosine 3':5'-monophosphate phosphodiesterase induction and phosphodiesterase inhibitor repression by exogenous adenosine 3':5'-monophosphate in Dictyostelium purpureum." Eur. J. Biochem. 95: 419-425.
	
Town, C. and E. Stanford (1979). "An oligosaccharide-containing factor that induces cell differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 76: 308-312.
	
Toorchen, D. and E. J. Henderson (1979). "Characterization of multiple extracellular cAMP-phosphodiesterase forms in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 87: 1168-1175.
	
Tisa, L. S. and D. A. Cotter (1979). "Expression of acid and alkaline phosphatase activities during germination of Dictyostelium discoideum spores." Microbios Lett. 11: 85-94.
	
Tisa, L. S. and D. A. Cotter (1979). "Trehalase expression during the germination of three resting stages of the Dictyosteliaceae." Curr. Microbiol. 3: 33-35.
	
Thomas, D. A. (1979). "Pentose phosphate metabolism during differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 113: 357-368.
	
Taylor, D. L., et al. (1979). The solation-contraction coupling hypthesis of cell movements. Cell motility: molecules and organization. S. Hatano, H. Ishikawa and H. Sato. Tokyo, Univ. Tokyo Press: 363-377.
	
Taylor, D. L. and J. S. Condeelis (1979). "Cytoplasmic structure and contractility in amoeboid cells." Int. Rev. Cytol. 56: 57-144.
	
Tasaka, M. and I. Takeuchi (1979). "Sorting out behaviour of disaggregated cells in the absence of morphogenesis in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Embryol. Exp. Morphol. 49: 89-102.
	
Stewart, P. R. and J. A. Spudich (1979). Dictyostelium myosin: effect of RNA on its aggregation properties. Motility in Cell Function. F. A. Pepe, J. W. Sanger and V. T. Nachmias. New York, NY, Ac. Press: 359-361.
	
Stewart, P. R. and J. A. Spudich (1979). "Structural states of Dictyostelium myosin." J. Supramol. Struct. 12: 1-14.
	
Sternfeld, J. and C. N. David (1979). "Ammonia plus another factor are necessary for differentiation in submerged clumps of Dictyostelium." J. Cell Sci. 38: 181-191.
	
Sternfeld, J. (1979). "Evidence for differential cellular adhesion as the mechanism of sorting-out of various cellular slime mold species." J. Embryol. Exp. Morph. 53: 163-178.
	
Steinemann, C., et al. (1979). "Identification of a developmentally regulated plasma membrane glycoprotein involved in adhesion of Polysphondylium pallidum cells." FEBS Lett. 108: 379-384.
	
Sperb, R. P. (1979). "A mathematical model describing the aggregation of amoebae." Bull. Math. Biol. 41: 555-572.
	
Soll, D. R. (1979). "Timers in developing systems." Science 203: 841-849.
	
Smith, E. and K. L. Williams (1979). Control of slug migration in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. Proc. Austral. Biochem. Soc.
	
Smith, E. and K. L. Williams (1979). "Preparation of slime sheath from Dictyostelium discoideum." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 6: 119-122.
	
Sherwood, P., et al. (1979). "Tflux: a general purpose program for the interpretation of radioactive tracer experiments." Comput. Progr. Biomedicine 10: 66-74.
	
Seela, F. and D. Hasselmann (1979). "Synthese von L(+)-discadenin und seinem desamino- und descarboxy-derivat." Chem. Ber. 112: 3072-3080.
	
Schmidt, J. A. and J. L. Stirling (1979). Characterization of an alpha-chymotrypsin sensitive step in the development of Dictyostelium discoideum. Abstracts of the 11th International Congress of Biochemistry (Toronto, Canada).
	
Schindler, J. and M. Sussman (1979). "Inhibition by ammonia of intracellular cAMP accumulation in Dictyostelium discoideum: Its significance for the regulation of morphogenesis." Dev. Genet. 1: 13-20.
	
Saito, M. (1979). "Effect of extracellular Ca2+ on the morphogenesis of Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Cell Res. 123: 79-86.
	
Ryter, A., et al. (1979). "Dictyostelium discoideum surface changes elicited by high concentrations of cAMP." Exp. Cell Res. 119: 373-380.
	
Rubenstein, P. and J. Deuchler (1979). "Acetylated and nonacetylated actins in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 254: 11142-11147.
	
Rowekamp, W. G., et al. (1979). Developmental control of expression of CBP (discoidin) in Dictyostelium discoideum. Hoppe Seyler's Z. Physiol. Chem.
	
Rossomando, E. F. and J. H. Jahngen (1979). "Hydrolysis of a phosphonate ester catalyzed by an enzyme from Dictyostelium discoideum." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 97: 364-366.
	
Ross, F. M. and P. C. Newell (1979). "Genetics of aggregation pattern mutations in the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 115: 289-300.
	
Rosner, M. R., et al. (1979). "The structure of lipopolisaccharide from an E. coli heptose-less mutant. 3. Two fatty acyl amidases from Dictyostelium discoideum and their action on lipopolysaccharide derivatives." J. Biol. Chem. 254: 5926-5933.
	
Rosen, S. D., et al. (1979). "Purification and characterization of multiple species (isolectins) of a slime mold lectin implicated in intercellular adhesion." J. Biol. Chem. 254: 9408-9415.
	
Rosen, S. D. and J. Kaur (1979). "Intercellular adhesion in the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium pallidum." Am. Zool. 19: 809-820.
	
Robson, G. E. and K. L. Williams (1979). "Vegetative incompatibility and the mating-type locus in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Genetics 93: 861-875.
	
Robertson, A. (1979). "Waves propagated during vertebrate development: observations and comments." J. Embryol. Exp. Morphol. 50: 155-167.
	
Rickwood, D. and M. S. Osman (1979). "Characterization of poly(ADP-ribose)polymerase activity in nuclei from the slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cell. Biochem. 27: 79-84.
	
Ray, J., et al. (1979). "A mutation altering the function of a carbohydrate binding protein blocks cell-cell cohesion in developing Dictyostelium discoideum." Nature 279: 215-221.
	
Rapp, P. E. (1979). "An atlas of cellular oscillators." J. Exp. Biol. 81: 281-306.
	
Rahmsdorf, H. J. and S. H. Pai (1979). "Protein kinases of Dictyostelium discoideum, strain AX-2." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 567: 339-346.
	
Rahmsdorf, H. J., et al. (1979). "Cell surface protein kinases in Dictyostelium: are they artifacts?" Cell Biol. Int. Reports 3: 237-245.
	
Rahmsdorf, H. J. (1979). Protein kinase action as a mediator of chemotaxis and differentiation in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. FEBS Proc. E. G. Krause, L. Pinna and A. Woolenberger. New York, Pergamon Press: 199-210.
	
Potel, M. J. and S. A. MacKay (1979). "Preaggregative cell motion in Dictyostelium." J. Cell Sci. 36: 281-309.
	
Poff, K. L. and B. D. Whitaker (1979). Movement of slime molds. Physiology of movements. (Encyclopedia of plant physiology, new series). W. Haupt and M. E. Feinleib. Springer-Verlag, New York: 355-382.
	
Parish, R. W. and S. Schmidlin (1979). "Synthesis of plasma membrane proteins during development of Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 98: 251-256.
	
Parish, R. W. and S. Schmidlin (1979). "Resynthesis of developmentally regulated plasma membrane proteins following dissaggregation of Dictyostelium pseudoplasmodia." FEBS Lett. 99: 270-273.
	
Parish, R. W. (1979). "Cyclic AMP induces the synthesis of developmentally regulated plasma membrane proteins in Dictyostelium." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 553: 179-182.
	
Pan, P. and H. J. Wedner (1979). "Immunohistochemical localization of cyclic GMP in aggregating Polysphondylium violaceum." Differentiation 14: 113-118.
	
Palatnik, C., et al. (1979). "Fractionation and functional analysis of newly synthesized and decaying in RNA's from vegetative cells of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Mol. Biol. 128: 371-396.
	
Pahlic, M. and C. L. Rutherford (1979). "Adenylate cyclase activity and cyclic AMP levels during the development of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 254: 9703-9707.
	
Orlowski, M. and W. F. Loomis (1979). "Plasma membrane proteins of Dictyostelium: The spore coat proteins." Dev. Biol. 71: 297-307.
	
Ono, K., et al. (1979). "Developmental changes in soluble proteins during the early development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Plant Cell Physiol. 20: 1417-1426.
	
Okamoto, K. (1979). "Induction of cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase by disaggregation of the multicellular complexes of Dictyostelium discoideum." Eur. J. Biochem. 93: 221-227.
	
Ohnishi, T. and K. Nozu (1979). "Ultraviolet effects on killing, fruiting body formation and the spores of Dictyostelium discoideum." Photochem. Photobiol. 29: 615-617.
	
O'Dell, W. D. (1979). "Isolation, enumeration and identification of amebae from a Nebraska lake." J. Protozool. 26: 265-269.
	
O'Day, D. H. and G. Paterno (1979). "Intracellular and extracellular CM-cellulase and beta-glucosidase activity during germination of Polysphondylium pallidum microcysts." Arch. Microbiol. 121: 231-234.
	
O'Day, D. H. and A. J. Durston (1979). "Evidence for chemotaxis during sexual development in Dictyostelium discoideum." Can. J. Microbiol. 25: 542-544.
	
O'Day, D. H. (1979). "Cell differentiation during fruiting body formation in Polysphondylium pallidum." J. Cell Sci. 35: 203-215.
	
O'Day, D. H. (1979). "Aggregation during sexual development in Dictyostelium discoideum." Can. J. Microbiol. 25: 1416-1426.
	
North, M. J. and J. M. Harwood (1979). "Multiple acid proteinases in the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta. 566: 222-233.
	
Murphy, M. and C. Klein (1979). "Effects of amino acids on cell differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Differ. 8: 275-284.
	
Muller, K., et al. (1979). "A membrane glycoprotein of aggregating Dictyostelium cells with the properties of contact sites." Eur. J. Biochem. 99: 419-426.
	
Mullens, I. A. (1979). A study of cAMP receptors in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium. Oxford, Oxford University.
	
McMahon, D. and S. Hoffman (1979). The cell surface and the development of the cellular slime mould, Dictyostelium discoideum. Surfaces of normal and malignant cells. R. O. Hynes. Chichester, New York, John Wiley & Sons: 421-459.
	
Matsukuma, S. and A. J. Durston (1979). "Chemotactic cell sorting in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Embryol. Exp. Morphol. 50: 243-251.
	
Mato, J. M., et al. (1979). "Intracellular cyclic GMP-binding proteins in cellular slime molds." J. Bacteriol. 137: 169-172.
	
Mato, J. M. and D. Marin-Cao (1979). "Protein and phospholipid methylation during chemotaxis in Dictyostelium discoideum and its relationship to calcium movements." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 76: 6106-6109.
	
Mato, J. M. and T. M. Konijn (1979). Chemosensory transduction in Dictyostelium discoideum. Biochemistry and Physiology of Protozoa. M. Levandowsky and S. H. Hunter. New York, Ac. Press: 181-219.
	
Mato, J. M. (1979). "Activation of Dictyostelium discoideum guanylate cyclase by ATP." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 88: 569-574.
	
Margolskee, J. P. (1979). Control of gene expression during the differentiation of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. Cambridge, MA, Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT).
	
Mangiarotti, G. and B. D. Hames (1979). "Analysis of ribosomal RNA metabolism during development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Cell Res. 119: 428-432.
	
MacWilliams, H. K. and J. T. Bonner (1979). "The prestalk-prespore pattern in cellular slime molds." Differentiation 14: 1-22.
	
MacLeod, C. L. and W. F. Loomis (1979). "Biochemical and genetic analysis of a mutant with altered alkaline phosphatase activity in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Genet. 1: 109-121.
	
MacLeod, C. L. (1979). Gene expression in Dictyostelium discoideum: a genetic and biochemical analysis. La Jolla, CA, University of California, San Diego (UCSD): 153.
	
Loomis, W. F. (1979). "Biochemistry of aggregation in Dictyostelium." Dev. Biol. 70: 1-12.
	
Lewis, K. A. and D. H. O'Day (1979). "Evidence for a hierarchical mating system operating via pheromones in Dictyostelium giganteum." J. Bacteriol. 138: 251-253.
	
Lax, A. J. (1979). "The evolution of excitable behaviour in Dictyostelium." J. Cell Sci. 36: 311-321.
	
Klein, C. and M. Darmon (1979). "A cAMP-sensitive adenylate cyclase in Dictyostelium discoideum extracts." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 5: 1-4.
	
Klein, C. (1979). "The effects of inhibitors of adenylate cyclase and phosphodiesterase on D. discoideum aggregation." Exp. Cell Res. 124: 205-213.
	
Klein, C. (1979). "A slowly dissociating form of a cell surface cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate receptor of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 256: 12573-12578.
	
King, A. C. E. (1979). Regulation of the cyclic adenosine monophosphate receptor of differentiating Dictyostelium discoideum. St. Louis, MO, Washington University: 304.
	
King, A. C. and W. A. Frazier (1979). "Properties of the oscillatory cAMP binding component of Dictyostelium discoideum cells and isolated plasma membranes." J. Biol. Chem. 254: 7168-7176.
	
Kindle, K. L. and R. A. Firtel (1979). "Evidence that populations of Dictyostelium single-copy mRNA transcripts carry common repeat sequences." Nucl. Acids Res. 6: 2403-2422.
	
Kimmel, A. R., et al. (1979). Families of interspered repeat sequences at the 5'end of Dictyostelium single copy genes. Eucaryotic Gene Regulation. (ICN-UCLA symp. mol. biol.). R. Axel, T. Maniatis and C. F. Fox. New York, Ac. Press: 195-203.
	
Kimmel, A. R. and R. A. Firtel (1979). "A family of short, interspersed repeat sequences at the 5' end of a set of Dictyostelium single-copy mRNAs." Cell 16: 787-796.
	
Killick, K. A. (1979). "Trehalase from Dictyostelium discoideum: evaluation of precision and sensitivity of continuous, coupled assays." Curr. Microbiol. 2: 99-102.
	
Killick, K. A. (1979). "Trehalose-6-phosphate synthase from Dictyostelium discoideum: partial purification and characterization of the enzyme from young sorocarps." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 196: 121-133.
	
Killick, K. A. (1979). "A continuos coupled polarographic assay for trehalase." Anal. Biochem. 94: 360-365.
	
Kessin, R. H., et al. (1979). "Binding of inhibitor alters kinetic and physical properties of extracellular cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase from Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 76: 5450-5454.
	
Kelly, P. J., et al. (1979). "The tricarboxylic acid cycle in Dictyostelium discoideum. Metabolite concentrations, oxygen uptake and 14C-labelled amino acid patterns." Biochem. J. 184: 581-588.
	
Kelly, P. J., et al. (1979). "Glycogen phosphorylase from Dictyostelium: A kinetic analysis by computer simulation." Biosystems 11: 55-63.
	
Kelly, P. J., et al. (1979). "The tricarboxylic acid cycle in Dictyostelium discoideum. A model of the cycle at preculmination and aggregation." Biochem. J. 184: 589-597.
	
Keller, H. U., et al. (1979). "A transient rise in cAMP levels following chemotactic stimulation of neutrophil granulocytes." Cell Biol. Int. Reports 3: 759-765.
	
Kelleher, J. K., et al. (1979). "Amino acid catabolism and malic enzyme in differentiating Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Bacteriol. 38: 467-474.
	
Kay, R. R., et al. (1979). "Cell differentiation in Dictyostelium doiscoideum." Differentiation 13: 7-14.
	
Kay, R. R. (1979). "Gene expression in Dictyostelium discoideum: mutually antagonistic roles of cyclic-AMP and ammonia." J. Embryol. Exp. Morphol. 52: 171-182.
	
Kawashima, K., et al. (1979). "Isolation of nucleoli from the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum strain A-3." Cell Struct. Funct. 4: 183-191.
	
Kawabe, K. (1979). "Color measurements of the sori of cellular slime molds by the color difference meter." Rep. Fac. Liberal Arts, Shizuoka Univ., Sci. 15: 47-50.
	
Kanda, F. and K. Yonezuka (1979). "A species of Dictyostelia isolated from lakeside soil of Harutoriko." Kushiro hakubutsu kanpo (Kushiro Museum Report) 258: 39-40.
	
Kanda, F., et al. (1979). "Ecological study on Dictyostelia. I. Distribution in Kushiro and its neighboring district, Hokkaido." Seibutsu kyozai (Biology Report) 14: 7-17.
	
Kanda, F. (1979). "Changes in cellular proteins during development in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Fac. Sci., Hokkaido Univ. Ser. V (Bot.) 11: 268-273.
	
Kakebeeke, P. I. J., et al. (1979). "Negative chemotaxis in Dictyostelium and Polysphondylium." Exp. Cell Res. 124: 429-433.
	
Jones, T. H. D., et al. (1979). "Cellulases released during the germination of Dictyostelium discoideum spores." J. Bacteriol. 137: 752-757.
	
Jastorff, B., et al. (1979). "A model for the chemical interactions of adenosine 3':5'-monophosphate with the R subunit of protein kinase type I. Refinement of the cyclic phosphate binding moiety of protein kinase type I." Eur. J. Biochem. 101: 555-562.
	
Jaffe, A. R., et al. (1979). "A ligand-receptor model for the cohesive behavior of Dictyostelium disoideum axenic cells." J. Cell Sci. 37: 157-167.
	
Jaffe, A. R. and D. R. Garrod (1979). "Effect of isolated plasma membranes on cell cohesion in the cellular slime mould." J. Cell Sci. 40: 245-256.
	
Inouye, K. and I. Takeuchi (1979). "Analytical studies on migrating, movement of the pseudoplasmodium of Dictyostelium discoideum." Protoplasma 99: 289-304.
	
Hodge, J. L. and E. F. Rossomando (1979). "Separation of enzymatic activities in Dictyostelium discoideum by high-pressure gel permeation chromatography." Anal. Biochem. 100: 179-183.
	
Hintermann, R. and R. W. Parish (1979). "Synthesis of plasma membrane proteins and antigens during development of the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium pallidum." FEBS Lett. 108: 219-225.
	
Hintermann, R. and R. W. Parish (1979). "Determination of adenylate cyclase activity in a variety of organisms: evidence against the occurrence of the enzyme in higher plants." Planta 146: 459-461.
	
Hintermann, R. and R. W. Parish (1979). "The intracellular location of adenylyl cyclase in the cellular slime molds Dictyostelium discoideum and Polysphondylium pallidum." Exp. Cell Res. 123: 429-434.
	
Herring, F. G. and G. Weeks (1979). "Analysis of Dictyostelium discoideum plasmamembrane fluidity by electron spin resonance." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 552: 66-77.
	
Hemmingsen, E. A. and B. B. Hemmingsen (1979). "Lack of intracellular bubble formation in microorganisms at very high gas super saturations." J. Appl. Physiol. Respir. Env. Exercise Physiol. 47: 1270-1277.
	
Hellewell, S. B., et al. (1979). Calcium sensitive gelation factors from contracted pellets of D. discoideum extracts. J. Cell Biol.
	
Hellewell, S. B. and D. L. Taylor (1979). "The contractile basis of amoeboid movement. VI. The solation contraction coupling hypothesis." J. Cell Biol. 83: 633-648.
	
Hanna, M. H., et al. (1979). "Cyclic nucleotides and cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase during development of Polysphondylium violaceum." Exp. Cell Res. 122: 265-271.
	
Hames, B. D. and B. A. Hodson (1979). "Accumulation of UDP-glucose pyrophosphorylase by axenically grown amoebae of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. J. 177: 21-28.
	
Hahn, G. L. (1979). An analysis of cyclic AMP receptor sites in the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum, utilizing a photoaffinity probe. Laramie, WY, University of Wyoming: 177.
	
Hagiwara, H. (1979). "The Acrasiales in Japan. V." Bull. Natl. Sci. Mus. Tokyo, Ser. B 5: 67-72.
	
Hader, D. P. and K. L. Poff (1979). "Inhibition of aggregation by light in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Arch. Microbiol. 123: 281-285.
	
Hader, D. P. and K. L. Poff (1979). "Photodispersal from light traps by amoebas of Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Mycol. 3: 121-131.
	
Hader, D. P. and K. L. Poff (1979). "Light-induced accumulations of Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae." Photochem. Photobiol. 29: 1157-1162.
	
Gustafson, G. L. and L. A. Thon (1979). "Purification and characterization of a proteinase from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 254: 12471-12478.
	
Gustafson, G. L. and L. A. Thon (1979). "Evidence for phosphoryl moieties in a proteinase from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 86: 667-673.
	
Gilkes, N. R., et al. (1979). "An analysis of the protein, glycoprotein and monosaccharide composition of Dictyostelium discoideum plasma membranes during development." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 551: 349-362.
	
Gerisch, G., et al. (1979). "Oscillations of cyclic nucleotide concentrations in relation to the excitability of Dictyostelium cells." J. Exp. Biol. 81: 33-47.
	
Gerisch, G. and R. Guggenheim (1979). Cell communication and specific adhesion in the microorganism Dictyostelium. Development and chemical specificity of neurons. Progress in brain rersearch. M. Cuenod, G. W. Kreutzberg and F. E. Bloom. Amsterdam, Elsevier/North-Holland Biomed. Press: 3-15.
	
Gerisch, G. (1979). Control circuits in cell aggregation and differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum. Mechanisms of cell change. J. D. Ebert and T. Okada. New York, J. Wiley & Sons: 225-239.
	
Geltosky, J. E., et al. (1979). "Identification of a cell surface glycoprotein involved in cell aggregation in D. discoideum." Cell 18: 391-398.
	
Geller, J. S. (1979). An investigation into the mechanism of oscillatory cyclic AMP synthesis in Dictyostelium discoideum. Cambridge, MA, Harvard Univ.
	
Fukui, Y. and H. Katsumaru (1979). "Nuclear actin bundles in Amoeba, Dictyostelium and human HeLa cells induced by dimethyl sulfoxide." Exp. Cell Res. 120: 451-455.
	
Fuhrer-Krusi, S. M. (1979). The basic nuclear proteins from Dictyostelium discoideum: localisation within the nucleus and changes during differentiation. Zurich, Switzerland, Univ. Zurich: 90.
	
Frischknecht-Tobler, U., et al. (1979). "Oekologische Beziehungen zwischen Zellulaeren Schleimpilzen und mikrobieller Aktivitaet eines Waldbodens im Jahresverlauf." Vierteljahrsschrift der Naturforschenden Gesellschaft in Zuerich 124: 77-108.
	
Freidlin, M. J. and S. A. Sivak (1979). "Small parameter method in multidimensional reaction-diffusion-problem. Model of cAMP signals in Dictyostelium discoideum." Studia Biophysica 76: 129-136.
	
Frazier, W. and L. Glaser (1979). "Surface components and cell recognition." Annu. Rev. Biochem. 48: 491-523.
	
Frantz, C. E. (1979). Phenotype analysis of aggregation mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum. Chicago, IL, The University of Chicago.
	
Francis, D. W. (1979). "True divergent differentiation in a cellular slime mold, Polysphondylium pallidum." Differentiation 15: 187-192.
	
Ford, W. T. and R. A. Deering (1979). "Survival, spore formation and excision repair of UV-irradiated developing cells of Dictyostelium discoideum NC-4." Photochem. Photobiol. 30: 653-659.
	
Fong, D. and J. T. Bonner (1979). "Proteases in cellular slime mold development: Evidence for their involvement." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 76: 6481-6485.
	
Fong, D. (1979). Protein turnover in cellular slime mold development. Princeton, NJ, Princeton University: 242.
	
Firtel, R. A., et al. (1979). "Unusual nucleotide sequences at the 5' end of actin genes in Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 76: 6206-6210.
	
Finney, R., et al. (1979). ""Erasure" in Dictyostelium: A dedifferentiation involving the programmed loss of chemotactic functions." Dev. Biol. 73: 290-303.
	
Filosa, M. F. (1979). "Macrocyst formation in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium mucoroides: Involvement of light and volatile morphogenetic subtance(s)." J. Exp. Zool. 207: 491-495.
	
Feinberg, A. P., et al. (1979). "Segregation of pre-stalk and pre-spore cells of Dictyostelium discoideum: Observations consistent with selective cell cohesion." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 76: 3977-3981.
	
Favard-Sereno, C. and M. Livrozet (1979). "Plasma membrane structural changes correlated with the acquisition of aggregation competence in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biol. Cellulaire 35: 45-54.
	
Emyanitoff, E. G. and B. E. Wright (1979). "Effect of intracellular carbohydrates on heat resistance of Dictyostelium discoideum spores." J. Bacteriol. 140: regulatory genes / trans-acting factors-1012.
	
Durston, A. J., et al. (1979). The control of later morphogenesis by chemotactic signals in Dictyostelim discoideum. Biophysical and Biochemical Information Transfer in Recognition. J. G. Vassileva-Popova and E. V. Jensen. New York, Plenum: 693-708.
	
Durston, A. J. and F. Vork (1979). "A cinematographical study of the development of vitally stained Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 36: 261-279.
	
Dingermann, T., et al. (1979). Early developmental changes in protein synthesis of Dictyostelium discoideum. Eur. J. Cell Biol.
	
Dingermann, T., et al. (1979). "Synthesis of transfer ribonucleic acids with uridine or 2'-O-methylribothymidine at position 54 in developing Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 115: 223-232.
	
Dinauer, M. C. (1979). Regulation of the cyclic AMP signalling response of Dictyostelium discoideum. Chicago, IL, The University of Chicago.
	
Dicou, E. L. and P. Brachet (1979). "Multiple forms of an cyclic-AMP phosphodiesterase from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 578: 232-242.
	
Dicou, E., et al. (1979). "Synthesis of Dictyostelium discoideum secretory proteins in Xenopus laevis oocytes." FEBS Lett. 104: 275-278.
	
Dicou, E. and P. Brachet (1979). "Purification of the inhibitor of the 3',5'-cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase of Dictyostelium discoieum by affinity chromatography." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 90: 1321-1327.
	
Devreotes, P. N. and T. L. Steck (1979). "cAMP relay in Dictyostelium discoideum. II. Requirements for the initiation and termination of the response." J. Cell Biol. 80: 300-309.
	
Devreotes, P. N., et al. (1979). "Cyclic 3',5'-AMP relay in Dictyostelium discoideum. I. A technique to monitor responses to controlled stimuli." J. Cell Biol. 80: 291-299.
	
Deering, R. A. and C. A. Michrina (1979). Aspects of deoxy TMP synthesis in Dictyostelium discoideum. Fed. Proc.
	
Das, D. V. M. and G. Weeks (1979). "Effects of polyunsaturated fatty acids on the growth and differentiation of the cellular slime mould, Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Cell Res. 118: 237-243.
	
Dahlberg, K. R. (1979). Autoactivation of spore germination in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. Windsor, ON (Canada), University of Windsor.
	
Crean, E. V. and E. F. Rossomando (1979). "Glucosphingolipid synthesis in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 196: 186-191.
	
Crean, E. V. and E. F. Rossomando (1979). "Effects of sugars on glycosidase secretion in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 110: 315-322.
	
Crean, E. V., et al. (1979). "Products of endogenous N-acetylglucosaminyltransferase activity of Dictyostelium discoideum during growth and early development." J. Bacteriol. 140: 188-196.
	
Coukell, M. B. and A. M. Cameron (1979). "radE, a new radiation-sensitive locus in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 114: 247-256.
	
Cotter, D. A., et al. (1979). "The physiological effects of restrictive environmental conditions on Dictyostelium discoideum spore germination." Can. J. Microbiol. 25: 24-31.
	
Cotter, D. A. (1979). "Activation of Dictyostelium discoideum spores with guanidine and methyl derivatives of urea." Curr. Microbiol. 2: 27-30.
	
Condeelis, J. S. and S. Geosits (1979). Properties of gelation factors from Dictyostelium discoideum and the solation contraction coupling hypothesis. J. Cell Biol.
	
Condeelis, J. (1979). "Isolation of concanavalin A caps during various stages of formation and their association with actin and myosin." J. Cell Biol. 80: 751-758.
	
Cockburn, A. F. (1979). The ribosomal RNA genes of Dictyostelium discoideum. Lo Jolla, CA, University of California, San Diego (UCSD): 74.
	
Clark, R. L. and T. L. Steck (1979). "Morphogenesis in Dictyostelium: an orbital hypothesis." Science 204: 1163-1168.
	
Chafouleas, J. G., et al. (1979). "Calmodulin. Development and application of a sensitive radioimmunoassay." J. Biol. Chem. 254: 10262-10267.
	
Chafouleas, J. G., et al. (1979). Development and application of a sensitive radio immunoassay for calmodulin. Fed. Proc.
	
Cavender, J. C., et al. (1979). "Dictyostelium aureostipes and Dictyostelium tenue: new species of the Dictyosteliaceae." Am. J. Bot. 66: 207-217.
	
Cappuccinelli, P., et al. (1979). "A mitotic inhibitor for chromosomal studies in slime moulds." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 5: 25-27.
	
Cappuccinelli, P., et al. (1979). "Differentiation without mitosis in Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell differ. 8: 243-252.
	
Call, P. and B. S. Jacobson (1979). Coating cells with a silica pellicle for isolation and exposure of the cytoplasmic surface of the plasma membrane. J. Cell Biol.
	
Burridge, K. and L. Jordan (1979). "The glycoproteins of Dictyostelium discoideum change during development." Exp. Cell Res. 124: 31-38.
	
Brown, S. S. and J. A. Spudich (1979). Effect of cytochalasin on actin assembly rate. J. Cell Biol.
	
Brown, S. S. and J. A. Spudich (1979). "Cytochalasin inhibits the rate of elongation of actin filament fragments." J. Cell Biol. 83: 657-662.
	
Brown, S. S. and J. A. Spudich (1979). "Nucleation of polar actin filament assembly by a positively charges surface." J. Cell Biol. 80: 499-504.
	
Bredehorst, R., et al. (1979). "Determination by radioimmumoassay of the sum of oxidized and reduced forms of NAD and NADP in picomole quantities from the same acid extract." Eur. J. Biochem. 99: 401-412.
	
Brachet, P., et al. (1979). "Inhibition of cell differentiation in a phosphodiesterase defective mutant of Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Differ. 8: 255-265.
	
Brachet, P. and E. Dicou (1979). "The role of signal modulation during the aggregation phase of Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 13: 15-16.
	
Bozzaro, S. and G. Gerisch (1979). "Developmentally regulated inhibitor of aggregation in cells of Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Differ. 8: 117-127.
	
Bordier, C. and A. Crettol-Jaervinen (1979). "Peptide mapping of heterogeneous protein samples." J. Biol. Chem. 254: 2565-2567.
	
Berridge, M. J. and P. E. Rapp (1979). "A comparative survey of the function, mechanism and control of cellular oscillators." J. Exp. Biol. 81: 217-279.
	
Bartles, J. R., et al. (1979). "Reconstitution of discoidin hemagglutination activity by lipid extracts of Dictyostelium discoideum cells." J. Biol. Chem. 254: 3156-3159.
	
Barondes, S. H. and P. L. Haywood (1979). "Comparison of develomentally regulated lectins from three species of cellular slime mould." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 550: 297-308.
	
Bakke, A. C. and J. Bonner (1979). "Purification and the histones of Dictyostelium discoideum chromatin." Biochemistry 18: 4556-4562.
	
Armant, D. R. and C. L. Rutherford (1979). "5'-AMP nucleotidase is localized in the area of the cell-cell contact of prespore and prestalk regions during culmination of Dictyostelium discoideum." Mech. Ageing Devel. 10: 199-217.
	
Alton, T. H. and M. Brenner (1979). "Comparison of proteins synthesized by anterior and posterior regions of Dictyostelium discoideum pseudoplasmodia." Dev. Biol. 71: 1-7.
	
Al-Rayess, H., et al. (1979). "The phosphate and polyphosphate content of Dictyostelium discoideum cells during their growth and subsequent differentiation." J. Univ. Kuwait (Sci) 6: 103-108.
	
Zada-Hames, I. M. and J. M. Ashworth (1978). "The cell cycle during the vegetative stage of Dictyostelium discoideum and its response to temperature change." J. Cell Sci. 32: 1-20.
	
Zada-Hames, I. M. and J. M. Ashworth (1978). "The cell cycle and its relationship to development in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 63: 307-320.
	
Yeh, R. P. W. (1978). Regulation of the extracellular cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase-inhibitor system and membrane differentiationn by exogenous cyclic AMP in Dictyostelium discoideum. Toronto, ON (Canada), York University: 152.
	
Yeh, R. P., et al. (1978). Regulation of cell differentiation by exogenous cyclic AMP in Dictyostelium discoideum. Can. Fed. Biol. Soc. Proc.
	
Yeh, R. P., et al. (1978). "Independent regulation of the extracellular cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase-inhibitor system and membrane differentiation by exogenous cyclic AMP." Dev. Biol. 66: 361-374.
	
Yamada, H., et al. (1978). "Mitogenic and adjuvant activities of polysaccharides from the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum NC-4." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 538: 627-630.
	
Wurster, B., et al. (1978). "Cyclic GMP regulation and responses of Polysphondylium violaceum to chemoattractants." Cell Biol. Int. Reports 2: 61-69.
	
Wright, B. E. (1978). Concepts of differentiation. The Filamentous Fungi. Developmental Mycology. J. E. Smith and D. R. Berry. London, Edward Arnold: 1-7.
	
Wilson, J. B. and C. L. Rutherford (1978). "ATP, trehalose, glucose and ammonium ion localization in the two cell types of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell. Physiol. 94: 37-48.
	
Williams, K. L. and P. Barrand (1978). "Parasexual genetics in the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum: haploidisation of diploid strains using ben late." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 4: 155-159.
	
Williams, K. L. (1978). "Characterization of dominant resistance to cobalt chloride in Dictyostelium discoideum and its use in parasexual genetic analysis." Genetics 90: 37-47.
	
Wilcox, D. K. and M. Sussman (1978). "Spore differentiation by isolated Dictyostelium discoideum cells, triggered by prior cell contact." Differentiation 11: 125-131.
	
Wick, U., et al. (1978). "Cyclic-AMP stimulated calcium influx into aggregating cells of Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Biol. Int. Reports 2: 71-79.
	
Wick, U. (1978). Aenderungen der intra- und extrazellulaeren Konzentrationen von zyklischem AMP, zyklischem GMP, sowie von Calcium wahrend der Bildung von Aggregationssignalen bei Dictyostelium discoideum. Tubingen, Univ. of Tubingen.
	
West, C. M., et al. (1978). "Identification of glycoproteins, using lectins as probes, in plasma membranes from Dictyostelium discoideum and human erythrocytes." J. Biol. Chem. 253: 1716-1724.
	
West, C. M. (1978). (1) Glycoproteins and development in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. (2) Separation of cells using isopycnic centrifugation in linear density gradients of colloidal silica. Pasadena, CA, California Institute of Technology (Caltech): 199.
	
Welker, D. L. and R. A. Deering (1978). Genetics of DNA repair in the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum. DNA repair mechanisms. P. C. Hanawalt, E. C. Friedberg and C. F. Fox. New York, Ac. Press: 445-448.
	
Welker, D. L. and R. A. Deering (1978). "Genetics of radiation sensitivity in the slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 109: 11-23.
	
Walsh, J. and B. E. Wright (1978). "Kinetics of net RNA degradation during development in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 108: 57-62.
	
Veron, M. and J.-C. Patte (1978). "Intracellular cAMP binding proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum: Differences in properties of the proteins from vegetative and differentiated cells." Dev. Biol. 63: 370-376.
	
van der Heijden, P. R. (1978). Purification of a developmentally regulated concanavalin-A receptor of Dictyostelium discoideum. Leiden, RUL: 1-25.
	
Uyemura, D. G., et al. (1978). "Biochemical and structural characterization of actin from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 253: 9088-9096.
	
Tsang, A. S. Y. (1978). The regulation of cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase and its specific inhibitor by exogenous cyclic AMP in Dictyostelium. Toronto, ON (Canada), York Univ.
	
Tsang, A. S. and M. B. Coukell (1978). Evidence for increased de novo synthesis of extracellular cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase during induction by cyclic AMP in Dictyostelium purpureum. Can. Fed. Biol. Soc. Proc.
	
Town, C. and J. Gross (1978). "The role of cyclic nucleotides and cell agglomeration in postaggregative enzyme synthesis in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 63: 412-420.
	
Thomas, D. A. (1978). Pentose phosphate metabolism during differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum. Fed. Proc.
	
Thomas, D. A. (1978). "Effects of adenosine 5'-monophosphate, glucose 1-phosphate and nucleotide sugars on the activity of glycogen phosphorylase from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 108: 311-313.
	
Taya, Y., et al. (1978). "5'-AMP is a direct precursor of cytokinin in Dictyostelium discoideum." Nature 271: 545-547.
	
Taya, O., et al. (1978). "Cell free biosynthesis of discadenine, a spore germination inhibitor of Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 89: 326-328.
	
Tanaka, Y., et al. (1978). "Isopentenyladenine from Dictyostelium discoideum." Phytochemistry 17: 543-544.
	
Takeuchi, I. and M. Tazawa (1978). "Studies on the morphogenesis of the slime mould, Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Struct. Funct. 3: 123-128.
	
Takeuchi, I., et al. (1978). "Regulation of cell differentiation in slime mold development." Bot. Mag. Tokyo (special issue) 1: 47-60.
	
Takemoto, S., et al. (1978). "The effects of cyclic AMP on disaggregation-induced changes in activities of developmentally regulated enzymes in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 80: 858-865.
	
Sutherland, J. B. and K. B. Raper (1978). "Distribution of cellular slime molds in Wisconsin prairie soils." Mycologia 70: 1173-1180.
	
Sussman, M., et al. (1978). "Cell interactions controlling morphogenesis and gene expression in Dictyostelium." Birth Defects: Original Article Series 14 no.2: 473-489.
	
Sussman, M., et al. (1978). ""Sluggers", a new class of morphogenetic mutants of D. discoideum." Exp. Cell Res. 116: 217-227.
	
Sussman, M. and J. Schindler (1978). "A possible mechanism of morphogenetic regulation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 10: 1-5.
	
Sumino, T. (1978). "A new method for separation of Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae." Annu. Rep. Res. Reactor Inst. Kyoto Univ. 11: 186-188.
	
Stumph, W. E., et al. (1978). "Gene enrichment using antibodies to DNA/RNA hybrids: purification and mapping of Dictyostelium discoideum rDNA." Biochemistry 17: 5791-5798.
	
Stevens, L., et al. (1978). "The effects of 1,4-diaminobutanone on polyamine metabolism in bacteria, a cellular slime mould and rat tissues." Biochem. Soc. Trans. 6: 407-409.
	
Springer, W. R. and S. H. Barondes (1978). "Direct measurement of species-specific cohesion in cellular slime molds." J. Cell Biol. 78: 937-942.
	
Spiegel, F. and L. Olive (1978). "New evidence for the validity of Copromyxa protea." Mycologia 70: 843-847.
	
Smith, E. and K. L. Williams (1978). Preliminary characterization of slime sheath of cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. Proc. Austral. Biochem. Soc.
	
Siu, C. H., et al. (1978). "Plasma membrane proteins in wild type and cascade-arrested mutant strains of Dictyostelium discoideum." Birth Defects: Original Article Series 14 no.2: 439-458.
	
Siu, C. H., et al. (1978). "Altered cell-cell recognition in a temperature conditional mutant of Dictyostelium discoideum." Birth Defects: Original Article series 14 no.2: 459-471.
	
Sinha, U. and J. M. Ashworth (1978). "Effects of p-fluorophenylalanine on growth and differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Phytomorph. 28: 210-215.
	
Sievers, S., et al. (1978). "Localization of glycosyl transferases in plasma membranes from Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cell. Biochem. 20: 103-110.
	
Seater, S. E. (1978). The excretion of 3',5'-cyclic adenosine monophosphate and other adenine nucleotides during early development of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. Providence, RI, Brown University: 93.
	
Schmidt, J. A., et al. (1978). "A chymotrypsin-sensitive step in the development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Nature 274: 400-401.
	
Schindler, J. M. (1978). The control of morphogenesis in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. Pittsburgh, PA, University of Pittsburgh: 150.
	
Sands, H. and H. V. Rickenberg (1978). Assessment of the role of cyclic nucleotides as hormonal mediators. Int. Rev. Biochem. (Biochemistry and mode of action of hormones, II). H. V. Rickenberg. Baltimore, Univ. Park Press: 45-80.
	
Sampson, J., et al. (1978). "Cyclic AMP and the control of aggregative phase gene expression in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 67: 54-64.
	
Sameshima, M., et al. (1978). "Growth conditions on cytokinesis in axenic strains of a cellular slime mould." Cell Struct. Funct. 3: 123-128.
	
Saito, M. and K. Yanagisawa (1978). "Participation of the cell surface in determining the development course in the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium purpureum." J. Embryol. Exp. Morphol. 48: 153-160.
	
Ryter, A. and P. Brachet (1978). "Cell surface during early development of Dictyostelium discoideum: scanning electron microscopic study." Biol. Cellulaire 31: 265-270.
	
Rossomando, E. F., et al. (1978). "Protease secretion during onset of development in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 30: 305-318.
	
Rossomando, E. F., et al. (1978). "Effect of hadacidin on growth and adenylosuccinate synthetase activity of Dictyostelium discoideum." Antimicrob. Agents Chemother. 14: 476-482.
	
Rossler, H., et al. (1978). "The biosynthesis of glycolipids during the differentiation of the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cell. Biochem. 20: 3-15.
	
Rossier, C., et al. (1978). "Action of a slowly hydrolysable cyclic AMP analogue on developing cells of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 35: 321-338.
	
Rosen, S. D. and S. H. Barondes (1978). Cell adhesion in the cellular slime molds. Specificity of embryological interactions (Receptors and recognitions, Series B). D. R. Garrod. London, Chapman and Hall: 234-264.
	
Robson, G. E. (1978). Mating and vegetative incompatibility in D. discoideum. Canberra, ACT, Australia, Australian National University.
	
Rickenberg, H. V. (1978). The role of cyclic nucleotides in development. Differentiation and Development (Miami Winter Symposia). F. Ahmad, J. Schultz, T. R. Russell and R. Werner. New York, Ac. Press: 149-167.
	
Ratner, D. I. and P. C. Newell (1978). "Linkage analysis in Dictyostelium discoideum using multiply marked tester strains: Establishment of linkage group VII and the reassessment of earlier linkage data." J. Gen. Microbiol. 109: 225-236.
	
Raper, K. B., et al. (1978). "Copromyxella: a new genus of acrasidae." Am. J. Bot. 65: 1011-1026.
	
Rahmsdorf, H. J., et al. (1978). "Cyclic AMP-induced phosphorylation in Dictyostelium of a polypeptide comigrating with myosin heavy chains." FEBS Lett. 88: 322-326.
	
Rahmsdorf, H. J. and G. Gerisch (1978). "Specific binding proteins for cyclic AMP and cyclic GMP in Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Differ. 7: 249-257.
	
Quiviger, B., et al. (1978). "Cytochemical demonstration of alkaline phosphatase in the contractile vacuole of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Ultrastruct. Res. 62: 228-236.
	
Pudek, M. R., et al. (1978). "Membrane bound cytochromes of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 3: 123-125.
	
Peacock, M. and D. R. Soll (1978). "The stabilization of morphological field size during slime mold morphogenesis." J. Embryol. Exp. Morphol. 44: 45-51.
	
Parnas, H. and L. A. Segel (1978). "A computer simulation of pulsatile aggregation in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Theor. Biol. 71: 185-207.
	
Parish, R. W., et al. (1978). "Effect of cyclic AMP pulses on the synthesis of plasma membrane proteins in aggregateless mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 96: 283-286.
	
Parish, R. W., et al. (1978). "Detection and developmentally controlled plasma membrane antigens of Dictyostelium discoideum cells in SDS-polyacrylamide gels." FEBS Lett. 95: 366-370.
	
Pan, P. and B. Wurster (1978). "Inactivation of the chemoattractant folic acid by cellular slime molds and identification of the reaction product." J. Bacteriol. 136: 955-959.
	
Palatnik, C. M., et al. (1978). Changes in transcription of messenger RNA during early Dictyostelium discoideum development. J. Supramol. Struct.
	
Ono, K. I., et al. (1978). "'Ghosts' formation and their isolation from the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Cell Res. 112: 175-185.
	
Olsen, A. M. and R. M. Eisenberg (1978). Polymorphism in a cellular slime mold. Genetics.
	
Ohnishi, T. and K. Nozu (1978). Ultraviolet effects on morphogenesis of Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Radiat. Res.
	
Ochiai, H., et al. (1978). "Scanning electron microscopic studies on cell surfaces of Dictyostelium discoideum: osmotic and pH effects during fixation." J. Fac. Sci., Hokkaido Univ. Ser. V (Bot.) 11: 225-230.
	
O'Day, D. H. and A. J. Durston (1978). "Colchicine induces multiple axis formation and stalk cell differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Embryol. Exp. Morphol. 47: 195-206.
	
North, M. J. and K. L. Williams (1978). "Relationship between the axenic phenotype and sensitivity to omega-aminocarboxylic acids in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 107: 223-230.
	
North, M. J. (1978). "Inhibition of acid proteinase from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Soc. Trans. 6: 400-403.
	
Nicol, A. and D. R. Garrod (1978). "Mutual cohesion and cell sorting-out among four species of cellular slime moulds." J. Cell Sci. 32: 377-387.
	
Newell, P. C. and I. A. Mullens (1978). "Cell-surface cAMP receptors in Dictyostelium." Symp. Soc. Exp. Biol. 32: 161-171.
	
Newell, P. C. (1978). "Genetics of the cellular slime molds." Annu. Rev. Genet. 12: 69-93.
	
Newell, P. C. (1978). Progress on slime mold morphogens. Nature. 271: 302-303.
	
Newell, P. C. (1978). "Cellular communication during aggregation of Dictyostelium. 2nd Fleming lecture." J. Gen. Microbiol. 104: 1-13.
	
Newell, P. (1978). "Genetics of cellular communication during aggregation of Dictyostelium." Birth Defects: Original Article Series 14 no.2: 507-526.
	
Nanjundiah, V. (1978). "Ligand-receptor binding in the presence of a difussion gradient." J. Indian Inst. Sci. 60: 199-204.
	
Muller, K. and G. Gerisch (1978). "A specific glycoprotein as the target site of adhesion blocking Fab in aggregating Dictyostelium cells." Nature 274: 445-449.
	
Mullens, I. A. and P. C. Newell (1978). "cAMP binding to cell surface receptors of Dictyostelium." Differentiation 10: 171-176.
	
Monier, et al. (1978). "Effect of 5-BUdR on RNA synthesis in Dictyostelium discoideum under growth and starvation conditions." Exp. Cell Res. 117: 31-38.
	
McKeown, M., et al. (1978). "Multiple, heterogeneous actin genes in Dictyostelium." Cell 15: 789-800.
	
Mato, J. M., et al. (1978). "Cyclic GMP binding activity in Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 90: 261-264.
	
Mato, J. M., et al. (1978). "Chemotaxis in Dictyostelium discoideum: Effect of concanavalin A on chemoattractant mediated cyclic GMP accumulation and light scattering decrease." Cell Biol. Int. Reports 2: 163-170.
	
Mato, J. M., et al. (1978). "Guanylate cyclase activity in Dictyostelium discoideum and its increase during cell development." Differentiation 10: 129-132.
	
Mato, J. M. and D. Malchow (1978). "Guanylate cyclase activation in response to chemotactic stimulation in Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 90: 119-122.
	
Mato, J. M. and D. Malchow (1978). Cyclic GMP function during chemosensory transduction in Dictyostelium discoideum. Cellular communication and control systems. L. Rensing and G. Roth. Bremen, Bremen University Press: 181-190.
	
Mato, J. M. and T. M. Konijn (1978). Chemotactic stimulation in Dictyostelium discoideum: mechanism of sensory transduction. Acta Protozoologica.
	
Mato, J. M., et al. (1978). "A model for cyclic AMP-chemoreceptor interaction in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 544: 309-314.
	
Mato, J. M. (1978). "ATP increases chemoattractant induced cyclic GMP accumulation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 540: 408-411.
	
Manabe, K. and K. L. Poff (1978). "Purification and characterization of photoreducible B type cytochrome from Dictyostelium discoideum." Plant Physiol. 61: 961-966.
	
Malchow, D., et al. (1978). "Cyclic AMP-induced pH changes in Dictyostelium discoideum and their control by calcium." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 538: 473-480.
	
Malchow, D., et al. (1978). "pH oscillations in cell suspensions of Dictyostelium discoideum: their relation to cyclic-AMP signals." J. Cell Sci. 30: 319-330.
	
Maeda, M. and Y. Maeda (1978). Biology of Slime Molds. Tokyo, Univ. of Tokyo.
	
Maeda, M. (1978). "Effects of EDTA and EGTA on chemotactic movement and morphogenesis of a cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum." Sci. Reports 27: 118-125.
	
MacKay, S. A. (1978). "Computer simulation of aggregation in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 33: 1-16.
	
Ma, G. C. L. and R. A. Firtel (1978). "Regulation of the synthasis of two carbohydrate-binding proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 253: 3924-3932.
	
Ma, G. C. L. (1978). Biochemical analyses of the developmental kinetics of two carbohydrate binding proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum. La Jolla, CA, University of California, San Diego (UCSD): 111.
	
lsen, A. M. (1978). Maintenance of genetic variability in Polysphondylium pallidum, a cellular slime mold. Newark, DE, University of Delaware: 96.
	
Loomis, W. F., et al. (1978). "Biochemical analysis of pleiotropy in Dictyostelium." Dev. Biol. 63: 243-246.
	
Loomis, W. F., et al. (1978). "The effect of divalent cations on aggregation of Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 12: 83-89.
	
Loomis, W. F. (1978). "Genetic analysis of the gene for N-acetylglucosaminidase in Dictyostelium discoideum." Genetics 88: 277-284.
	
Loomis, W. F. (1978). "The number of developmental genes in Dictyostelium." Birth Defects: Original Article Series 14 no.2: 497-505.
	
Lodish, H. F., et al. (1978). Transcriptional and translational control of protein synthesis during differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum. Differentiation and Development (Miami Winter Symposia). F. Ahmad, J. Schultz, T. R. Russel and R. Werner. New York, Ac. Press: 169-186.
	
Lo, E. K. L., et al. (1978). "Physiological and biochemical characterization of aggregation-deficient mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum: detection and response to exogenous cyclic AMP." Can. J. Microbiol. 24: 455-465.
	
Levinson, M. A. (1978). "McMahon's model for cellular position determination in development: parameter dependence and an analytical solution." Collective Phenomena 3: 35-39.
	
Lacalli, T. C. and L. G. Harrison (1978). "The regulatory capacity of Turing's model for morphogenesis, with application to slime moulds." J. Theor. Biol. 70: 273-295.
	
Kuserk, F. T. (1978). The regulation of density and community structure in natural cellular slime mold (Dictyosteliida) populations. Newark, DE, University of Delaware: 151.
	
Ku, K. Y. and B. Goz (1978). "5-iodo-2'-deoxyuridine inhibition of Dictyostelium discoideum differentiation and cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase activity." Biochem. Pharmacol. 27: 1597-1601.
	
Korn, E. (1978). "Biochemistry of actomyosin-dependent cell motility." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 75: 588-599.
	
Kopachik, W. J. and J. H. Gregg (1978). "Cell contact-induced inhibition of division in Dictyostelium." J. Cell Sci. 29: 277-286.
	
Kindle, K. L. and R. A. Firtel (1978). "Identification and analysis of Dictyostelium actin genes, a family of moderately repeated genes." Cell 15: 763-778.
	
Kilpatrick, D. C. and J. L. Stirling (1978). "Carbohydrate composition of cells and plasma membranes of Dictyostelium discoideum at selected stages of development." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 543: 357-363.
	
Kilpatrick, D. C., et al. (1978). "Purification of carbohydrate binding proteins from Dictyostelium discoideum by affinity chromatography on agarose-e-aminocaproyl-fucosamine." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 4: 67-70.
	
Killick, K. A. and B. E. Wright (1978). "Multiple forms of glucokinase from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Bacteriol. 133: 1039-1041.
	
Kielman, J. K. (1978). Relation of DNA synthesis and cell division to ultraviolet radiation sensitivity in axenically grown Dictyostelium discoideum. University Park, PA, The Pennsylvania State University (Penn State): 134.
	
Kestler, D., et al. (1978). "Isolation and characterization of a transcriptionally active fraction from Dictyostelium discoideum." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 189: 172-184.
	
Kelleher, J. K., et al. (1978). "A kinetic model of glucokinase and G-6-P phosphatase in Dictyostelium." Mol. Cell. Biochem. 19: 67-73.
	
Kay, R. R., et al. (1978). "Effects of BUdR on developmental functions of Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Differ. 33: 33-45.
	
Kay, R. R., et al. (1978). "Requirement for cell differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Nature 271: 58-60.
	
Kawai, S. and K.-I. Tanaka (1978). "Spin-labeling studies on the membranes of differentiating cells of Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Struct. Funct. 3: 31-37.
	
Kawabe, K. and S. Tamaki (1978). "On dictyostelid cellular slime molds at Warabi-dan (Mt. Sen-mai) of the Southern Alps of Japan. II. Seasonal variations." Rep. Fac. Liberal Arts, Shizuoka Univ., Sci. 14: 33-38.
	
Katz, E. R. (1978). "Cellular slime mold genetics." Bioscience 28: 692-697.
	
Kakebeeke, P. I. J., et al. (1978). "Purification and preliminary characterization of an aggregation-sensitive chemoattractant of Dictyostelium minutum." J. Bacteriol. 133: 403-405.
	
Juliani, M. H. and C. Klein (1978). "A biochemical study of the effects of cAMP pulses on aggregateless mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 62: 162-172.
	
Jastorff, B., et al. (1978). Comparison of the molecular interactions between cAMP and its receptor protein in Dictyostelium discoideum and protein kinase type I. Hoppe-Seyler's Z. Physiol. Chemie.
	
Jastorff, B., et al. (1978). "Comparison of the chemical interactions of cAMP at its binding site of protein kinase type I from rabbit muscle and the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Nucl. Acids Res. (Special Publication) 4: s237-s241.
	
Jastorff, B. (1978). 5-Amino-5-deoxy-adenosine 3'-phosphates mimicking the biological activity of cAMP. Adv. Cycl. Nucl. Res.
	
Ishiguro, A. and G. Weeks (1978). "Subunit composition and molecular weigths of the developmentally regulated lectins from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 253: 7585-7587.
	
Hunt, T. E. (1978). Cell movement in the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. Chicago, IL, The University of Chicago.
	
Hohl, H. R., et al. (1978). "Plasma membrane alterations as a result of heat activation in Dictyostelium spores." Arch. Microbiol. 116: 239-244.
	
Hoffman, S. R. (1978). The role of the plasma membrane in the development of the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum. Pasadena, CA, California Institute of Technology (Caltech): 211.
	
Hoffman, S. and D. McMahon (1978). "The effects of inhibition of development in Dictyostelium discoideum on changes in plasma membrane composition and topography." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 187: 12-24.
	
Hoffman, S. and D. McMahon (1978). "Defective glycoproteins in the plasma membrane of an aggregation minus mutant of Dictyostelium discoideum with abnormal cellular interactions." J. Biol. Chem. 253: 278-287.
	
Hellewell, S. B. and D. L. Taylor (1978). A partially purified model system of gelation and contraction from Dictyostelium discoideum. Biophys. J.
	
Hayashi, H. and F. Yamasaki (1978). "Characteristics of the induction of phosphodiesterases by cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate in the slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum." Chem. Pharm. Bull. 26: 2977-2982.
	
Hayashi, H. and T. Suga (1978). "Some characteristics of peroxisomes in the slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biochem. 84: 513-521.
	
Hartsuyker, K. L. K. (1978). The analysis of genome structure and transcription in Dictyostelium discoideum using three recombinant plasmids. La Jolla, CA, University of California, San Diego (UCSD): 261.
	
Hara, Y. (1978). "Cellular slime molds (Acrasieae) of the Tenryu River region. II. Seasonal fluctuation in the forest soil." Jap. J. Ecol. 28: 43-48.
	
Hanna, M. H. and E. C. Cox (1978). "The regulation of cellular slime mold development: A factor causing development of Polysphondylium violaceum aggregation-defective mutants." Dev. Biol. 62: 206-214.
	
Hagiwara, H. (1978). "The Acrasiales in Japan. IV." Bull. Natl. Sci. Mus. Tokyo, Ser. B 4: 27-32.
	
Gwynne, D. I. and D. H. O'Day (1978). "RNA and protein synthetic patterns during germination of Polysphondylium pallidum microcysts." Can. J. Microbiol. 24: 480-486.
	
Grutsch, J. F. and A. Robertson (1978). "The cAMP signal from Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae." Dev. Biol. 66: 285-293.
	
Gregg, J. H. and G. C. Karp (1978). "Patterns of cell differentiation revealed by L-[3H] fucose incorporation in Dictyostelium." Exp. Cell Res. 112: 31-46.
	
Grabel, L. B. (1978). Cell interaction and biochemical differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum. La Jolla, CA, University of California, San Diego (UCSD): 113.
	
Grabel, L. and W. F. Loomis (1978). "Effector controlling accumulation of N-acteylglucosaminidase during development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 64: 203-209.
	
Goldbeter, A., et al. (1978). "Excitability in the adenylate cyclase reaction in Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 89: 237-241.
	
Goldbeter, A. and T. Erneux (1978). "Oscillations entretenues et excitabilite dans la reaction de la phosphofructokinase." C.R. Acad. Sc. Paris, Serie C 286: 63-66.
	
Giri, J. G. and H. L. Ennis (1978). "Developmental changes in RNA and protein synthesis during germination of Dictyostelium discoideum spores." Dev. Biol. 67: 189-201.
	
Gerisch, G., et al. (1978). "Dictyostelium, a microbial model for biochemical studies on cell recognition." Biochem. Soc. Trans. 6: 481-486.
	
Gerisch, G. (1978). "Cell interactions by cyclic AMP in Dictyostelium." Biol. Cellulaire 32: 61-68.
	
Geltosky, J. E., et al. (1978). Use of common plant lectins for isolation and characterization of constitutive and developmentally regulated cell surface associated glycoproteins of Dictyostelium discoideum. Cell surface carbohydrates and biological recognition. V. T. Marchesi, V. Ginsburg, P. W. Robbins and C. F. Fox. New York, A.R. Liss: 613-619.
	
Geller, J. S. and M. Brenner (1978). "Measurements of metabolites during cAMP oscillations of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell. Physiol. 97: 413-420.
	
Geller, J. and M. Brenner (1978). "The effect of 2,4-dinitrophenol on Dictyostelium discoideum oscillations." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 81: 814-821.
	
Garrod, D. R., et al. (1978). "Cellular recognition in slime mould development." Symp. Soc. Exp. Biol. 32: 173-202.
	
Fukui, Y. (1978). "Intranuclear actin bundles induced by dimethyl sulfoxide in interphase nucleus of Dictyostelium." J. Cell Biol. 76: 146-157.
	
Freeze, H. and W. F. Loomis (1978). "Chemical analysis of stalk components of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 539: 529-537.
	
Free, S. J., et al. (1978). "Characterization and genetic mapping of modA, a mutation in the post-translational modification of the glycosidases of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 253: 4102-4106.
	
Free, S. J. and R. T. Schimke (1978). "Effects of a post-translational modification mutation on different developmentally regulated glycosidases in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 253: 4107-4111.
	
Franke, J. and R. Kessin (1978). "Auxotrophic mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum." Nature 272: 537-538.
	
Francis, D. W. (1978). Divergent differentiation in a cellular slime mold. Genetics.
	
Francis, D., et al. (1978). "A mutant strain of Polysphondylium pallidum deficient in production of cyclic AMP." Dev. Biol. 67: 232-236.
	
Fong, D. and C. L. Rutherford (1978). "Protease activity during cell differentiation of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Bacteriol. 134: 521-527.
	
Filosa, M. F. (1978). "Concanavalin-mediated attachment to membranes of a cellular slime mould cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase." Differentiation 10: 177-180.
	
Feit, I. N., et al. (1978). "Induction of stalk and spore cell differentiation by cyclic AMP in slugs of Dictyostelium discoideum." Science 200: 439-441.
	
Erdos, G. W. and K. B. Raper (1978). "Ultrastructural aspects of two species of Guttulinopsis." Am. J. Bot. 65: 552-561.
	
Ennis, H. L., et al. (1978). "Synthesis of macromolecules during microcyst germination in the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium pallidum." Dev. Biol. 65: 251-259.
	
Eckert, B. S. and E. Lazarides (1978). "Localization of actin in Dictyostelium by immunofluorescence." J. Cell Biol. 77: 714-721.
	
Dykstra, M. J. and H. C. Aldrich (1978). "Successful demonstration of an elusive cell coat in amebae." J. Protozool. 25: 38-41.
	
Durston, A. J. and F. Vork (1978). "The spatial pattern of DNA synthesis in Dictyostelium discoideum slugs." Exp. Cell Res. 115: 454-457.
	
Dingermann, T., et al. (1978). Specific ribothymidine-lacking RNAs in developing Dictyostelium discoideum. Hoppe-Seyler's Z. Physiol. Chemie.
	
Devreotes, P. N., et al. (1978). Cyclic AMP elicited cyclic AMP secretion in Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Depraitere, C. and M. Darmon (1978). "Croissance de l'amibe sociale Dictyostelium discoideum sur differentes especes bacteriennes." Ann. Microbiol. (Institute Pasteur) 129B: 451-461.
	
Demeglio, D. C. and T. B. Friedman (1978). "Galactose metabolism in Dictyostelium discoideum regulation of galatose-1-phosphate-uridyl transferase during growth and development." J. Biochem. 83: 693-698.
	
Deering, R. A. and D. L. Welker (1978). Interactions between radiation sensitive mutations in double mutant haploids of Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Supramol. Struct.
	
de Chastellier, C., et al. (1978). "Observations on the functioning of the contractile vacuole of Dictyostelium discoideum with the electron microscope." J. Ultrastr. Res. 62: 220-227.
	
Davis, F. (1978). Ch. 7: Slime molds: the message they send. Eloquent animals - a study in animal communication. New York, Coward, McCann & Geoghegan: 73-80.
	
Darmon, M. and C. Klein (1978). "Effects of amino acids and glucose on adenylate cyclase and cell differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 63: 377-389.
	
Darmon, M. and P. Brachet (1978). Chemotaxis and differentiation during the aggregation of Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae. Taxis and behaviour. Elementary sensory systems in biology. G. L. Hazelbauer. London, Chapman and Hall: 101-139.
	
Darmon, M., et al. (1978). "The role of phosphodiesterase in aggregation of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 31: 233-243.
	
Dahlberg, K. R. and D. A. Cotter (1978). "Autoactivation of spore germination in mutant and wild type strains of Dictyostelium discoideum." Microbios 23: 153-166.
	
Dahlberg, K. R. and D. A. Cotter (1978). "Activators of Dictyostelium discoideum spore germination released by bacteria." Microbios Lett. 9: 139-146.
	
Condeelis, J. S. (1978). A direct role for the actin cytoskeleton in the mobility of cell surface receptors. J. Cell Biol.
	
Cohen, M. S. (1978). "The cyclic AMP control system in the development of Dictyostelium discoideum. II. An allosteric model." J. Theor. Biol. 72: 231-255.
	
Coe, E. L. and W. J. K. Chung (1978). Use of turbidity to detect changes in cellular structure: the response of cellular slime mold amoebae to 3'5' cyclic AMP. Biomolecular Structure and Function. P. F. Agris. New York, Ac. Press: 267-272.
	
Coe, E. L. and W. J. K. Chung (1978). Possible role of metabolic oscillations in the induction of cAMP signalling in Dictyostelium discoideum. Differentiation and development.
	
Coco, A. R. and J. M. Kornfeld (1978). "Evidence of an endogenous germinant in spores of a strain of Dictyostelium purpureum." Eur. J. Appl. Microbiol. Biotechnol. 5: 129-132.
	
Cockburn, A. F., et al. (1978). "Dictyostelium rDNA consists of non-chromosomal palindromic dimers containing 5S and 36S coding regions." Chromosoma 70: 19-29.
	
Clarke, M. (1978). Motility in Dictyostelium discoideum biochemical and genetic studies. J. Supramol. Struct.
	
Clarke, M. (1978). A selection method for isolating motility mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum. Cell Reproduction: Daniel Mazia Dedicatory Volume. (ICN-UCLA Symposia Mol. Cell. Biol.). E. R. Dirksen, D. Prescott and C. F. Fox. New York, Ac. Press: 621-629.
	
Chung, W. J. K. and E. L. Coe (1978). "Correlations among the responses of suspensions of Dictyostelium discoideum to pulses of 3',5'-cyclic AMP. Transient turbidity decrease, the cyclic AMP signal, and variation in adenine mononucleotide levels." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 544: 29-44.
	
Chung, W. J. K. (1978). The possible involvement of shifts in adenine mononucleotide levels in the mechanism of the cAMP signalling response in Dictyostelium discoideum. Evanston, IL, Northwestern University: 200.
	
Chiarugi, V. P., et al. (1978). "Sulfated polysaccarides and the differentiation of cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Caryologia 31: 183-190.
	
Chang, M. T., et al. (1978). The environment and morphogenesis in Dictyostelium. Abstr. Annu. Mtg. Am. Soc. Microbiol.
	
Chang, M. T. (1978). The effect of light on macrocyst formation of Dictyostelium mucoroides, strain DM-7. Madison, WI, The University of Wisconsin - Madison: 139.
	
Chan, F. K. y. (1978). Changes in the intracellular cAMP pools of wild-type strains and developmental mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum under starvation conditions. Toronto, ON (Canada), York University: 178.
	
Cavender, J. C. (1978). A possible new cellular slime mold genus, Heterosphondylium. Ohio J. Sci. (Suppl.).
	
Cavender, J. C. (1978). "Cellular slime molds in tundra forest soils of Alaska including a new species, Dictyostelium septentrionalis." Can. J. Bot. 57: 1326-1332.
	
Cappuccinelli, P., et al. (1978). "Identification of cytoplasmic tubulin in Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 91: 153-157.
	
Cappuccinelli, P. and B. D. Hames (1978). "Characterization of colchicine-binding activity in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. J. 169: 499-501.
	
Brenner, M. (1978). "Cyclic AMP levels and turnover during development of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 64: 210-223.
	
Bozzaro, S. and G. Gerisch (1978). "Contact sites in aggregating cells of Polysphondylium pallidum." J. Mol. Biol. 120: 265-279.
	
Bourgignon, L. Y. W. and E. R. Katz (1978). "Isolation and characterization of the RNA of membrane-bound ribosomes in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 106: 93-101.
	
Bordier, C., et al. (1978). "The major developmentally regulated protein complex in membranes of Dictyostelium." J. Biol. Chem. 253: 5133-5139.
	
Bonner, J. T. (1978). "The life cycle of the cellular slime molds." Natural History 87: 70-79.
	
Bender, W., et al. (1978). "The structure of M6, a recombinant plasmid containing Dictyostelium DNA homologous to actin messenger RNA." Cell 15: 779-788.
	
Bazin, M. J., et al. (1978). Predation by slime mould amoebae. Proceedings in Life Sciences. Microbial Ecology. M. W. Loutit and J. A. R. Miles. Berlin, New York, Springer-Verlag: 21-24.
	
Bazin, M. J. (1978). "Predator-prey interactions between protozoa and bacteria." Ann. Appl. Biol. 89: 159-162.
	
Batts-Young, B. and H. F. Lodish (1978). "Triphosphate residues at the 5'ends of rRNA precursor and 5S RNA from Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 75: 740-744.
	
Barondes, S. H., et al. (1978). "Polysphondylium pallidum agglutinin (Pallidin)." Meth. Enzymol. 50: 312-316.
	
Barondes, S. H., et al. (1978). "Dictyostelium discoideum agglutinins (discoidins I and II)." Meth. Enzymol. 50: 306-312.
	
Barondes, S. H. (1978). "Developmentally regulated slime mold lectins and specific cell cohesion." Birth Defects: Original Article Series 14 no.2: 491-496.
	
Barondes, S. H. (1978). Developmentally regulated lectins in cellular slime molds and embryonic chick tissues. Cell surface carbohydrates and biological recognition. V. T. Marchesi, V. Ginsburg, P. W. Robbins and C. F. Fox. New York, A.R. Liss: 633-636.
	
Barclay, S. L. and E. J. Henderson (1978). Genetic analysis of the cyclic AMP chemosensory system of Dictyostelium discoideum and its role in morphogenesis. Differentiation and development.
	
Bakke, A. C., et al. (1978). "Chromatin structure in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 75: 705-709.
	
Bakke, A. C. (1978). Studies on the chromatin of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. Pasadena, CA, California Institute of Technology (Caltech): 125.
	
Zada-Hames, I. M. and J. M. Ashworth (1977). The cell cycle during the growth and developmental of Dictyostelium discoideum. Development and differentiation in the cellular slime moulds. P. Cappuccinelli and J. M. Ashworth. Amsterdam, Elsevier/North-Holland: 69-78.
	
Zada-Hames (1977). "Analysis of karyotype and ploidy of Dictyostelium discoideum using colchicine induced metaphase arrest." J. Gen. Microbiol. 99: 201-208.
	
Yanagisawa, M., et al. (1977). "Effects of some nucleoside antibiotics on morphogenetic development and synthesis of RNA and protein in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Fac. Sci., Hokkaido Univ. Ser. V (Bot.) 10: 231-244.
	
Yamamoto, M. (1977). "Some aspects of behavior of the migrating slug of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Devel. Growth Differ. 19: 93-102.
	
Yamada, T., et al. (1977). Intercellular discrimination of aggregating cells in cellular slime molds. Jap. J. Genet.
	
Yamada, H., et al. (1977). "Extracellular agglutination factor of myxamoebae produced by Dictyostelium discoideum NC-4." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 497: 396-407.
	
Yagura, T., et al. (1977). "Some properties of partially purified DNA-dependent RNA polymerases and changes of levels of their activities during development of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Fac. Sci., Hokkaido Univ. Ser. V (Bot.) 10: 219-230.
	
Wurster, B., et al. (1977). "Cyclic GMP in Dictyostelium discoideum: Oscillations and pulses in response to folic acid and cyclic AMP signals." FEBS Lett. 76: 141-144.
	
Wurster, B. and K. Schubiger (1977). "Oscillations and cell development in Dictyostelium discoideum stimulated by folic acid pulses." J. Cell Sci. 27: 105-114.
	
Wright, M. D., et al. (1977). "Ethidium bromide resistance: A selective marker located on linkage group IV of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 102: 423-426.
	
Wright, B. E. and D. Thomas (1977). Enzyme turnover in Dictyostelium. Eucaryotic microbes as model developmental systems. D. H. O'Day and P. A. Horgen. New York, M. Dekker: 194-212.
	
Wright, B. E., et al. (1977). "Fourthth expansion and glucose perturbation of the Dictyostelium kinetic model." Eur. J. Biochem. 74: 217-225.
	
Wright, B. and J. Ashworth (1977). "What is the molecular mechanism of differentiation in the slime mold? (discussion). B. Wright: metabolic activity and flux play major roles. J. Ashworth: evidence linking metabolic pools with differentiation not compelling." TIBS (1978) vol. 3, N66, N186 2: N272-N275.
	
Wright, B. (1977). Perturbation of differentiation and the kinetic model by glucose. Development and differentiation in the cellular slime moulds. P. Cappucinelli and J. Ashworth. Amsterdam, Elsevier/North-Holland: 201-220.
	
Williams, K. L. and F. O. Stenhouse (1977). Quantitative analysis of the proportions of the Dictyostelium discoideum asexual fruiting body. Development and differentiation in the cellular slime moulds. P. Cappuccinelli and J. M. Ashworth. Amsterdam, Elsevier/North-Holland: 27-30.
	
Wier, P. W. (1977). "Cyclic AMP, cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase, and the duration of the interphase in Dictyostelium discoideum." Differentiation 9: 183-191.
	
West, C. M. and D. McMahon (1977). "Identification of concanavalin A receptors and galactose-binding proteins in purified plasma membranes of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Biol. 74: 264-273.
	
Welker, D. L. (1977). Genetic and molecular characterization of radiation sensitive mutants of the slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum. University Park, PA, The Pennsylvania State University (Penn State): 107.
	
Watts, D. J. (1977). "Vitamin requirements for growth of myxamoebae of Dictyostelium discoideum in a defined medium." J. Gen. Microbiol. 98: 355-361.
	
Ward, A. and M. Brenner (1977). "Guanylate cyclase from Dictyostelium discoideum." Life Sci. 21: 997-regulatory genes / trans-acting factors.
	
Walsh III, J. F. (1977). Quantitative determination of RNA and possible use as energy source in Dictyostelium discoideum. Cambridge, MA, Harvard College: 46.
	
Wallace, M. A. (1977). Cultural and genetic studies of the macrocysts of Dictyostelium discoideum. Madison, WI, The University of Wisconsin - Madison: 219.
	
Waddell, D. R. and D. R. Soll (1977). "A characterization of the erasure phenomenon in Dictyostelium." Dev. Biol. 60: 83-92.
	
Von Dreele, P. H. and K. L. Williams (1977). "Electron spin resonance studies of the membranes of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 464: 378-388.
	
Uchiyama, M. and H. Abe (1977). "A synthesis of racemic discadenine." Agr. Biol. Chem. 41: 1549-1551.
	
Turner, R. and M. J. North (1977). Polyamines and their metabolism in Dictyostelium discoideum. Development and diiferentiation in the cellular slime moulds. P. Cappuccinelli and J. M. Ashworth. Amsterdam, Elsevier/North-Holland: 221-230.
	
Tsang, A. S. and M. B. Coukell (1977). "The regulation of cyclic AMP phospodiesterase and its specific inhibitor by cyclic AMP in Dictyostelium." Cell Differ. 6: 75-84.
	
Traub, F. K. (1977). Ein neues Konzept zur Taxonomie der Dictyostelia. Zurich, Univ. Zurich: 113.
	
Town, C. D. and E. Stanford (1977). "Stalk cell differentiation by cells from migrating slugs of Dictyostelium discoideum: special properties of tip cells." J. Embryol. Exp. Morphol. 42: 105-113.
	
Tihon, C., et al. (1977). Regulation of synthesis of enzymes by cyclic AMP in Dictyostelium. Adv. Cycl. Nucl. Res.
	
Thadani, V., et al. (1977). "Complementary effects of ammonia and cAMP on aggregation territory size in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium mucoroides." Exp. Cell Res. 108: 75-78.
	
Taylor, W. C., et al. (1977). Organization of ribosomal and 5S RNA coding regions in Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Supramol. Struct.
	
Taylor, W. C., et al. (1977). Organization of ribosomal and 5S RNA coding regions in Dictyostelium discoideum. Molecular approaches to eucaryotic genetic systems. (ICN-UCLA symp.). G. Wilcox, J. Abelson and C. F. Fox. New York, Ac. Press: 309-313.
	
Taylor, D. L., et al. (1977). The contractile basis of amoeboid movement III. Structure and dynamics of motile extracts and membrane fragments from Dictyostelium discoideum and Amoeba proteus. Cell shape and surface architecture (Progress in clin. biol. res.). J. Revel, U. Henning and C. Fox. New York, A.R. Liss: 581-603.
	
Taylor, D. L. (1977). Dynamics of cytoplasmic structure and contractility. International Cell Biology 1976-1977. B. R. Brinkley and K. R. Porter. New York, Rockefeller Univ. Press: 367-377.
	
Tamaki, S. and K. Kawabe (1977). "On dictyostelid cellular slime molds ar Warabi-dan (Mt. Sen-mai) of the Southern Alps of Japan. I. Environmental conditions and distribution." Rep. Fac. Liberal Arts, Shizuoka Univ., Sci. 13: 49-53.
	
Takeuchi, I., et al. (1977). Cell differentiation and pattern formation in Dictyostelium. Development and differentiation in the cellular slime moulds. P. Cappuccinelli and J. Ashworth. Amsterdam, Elsevier/North-Holland: 1-16.
	
Swan, A. P., et al. (1977). "An inhibitor of cell cohesion from axenically grown cells of the slime mould, Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 28: 107-116.
	
Sussman, M., et al. (1977). Toward a biochemical definition of the morphogenetic fields in Dictyostelium discoideum. Development and differentiation in the cellular slime moulds. P. Cappuccinelli and J. M. Ashworth. Amsterdam, Elsevier/North-Holland: 31-50.
	
Sussman, M. (1977). Cell interaction and gene expression in Dictyostelium. J. Supramol. Struct.
	
Stumph, W. E., et al. (1977). Gene enrichment using an affinity resin with specificity for RNA-DNA hybrids. J. Cell Biol.
	
Sternfeld, J. M. (1977). Cell differentiation and sorting out in the cellular slime molds. Princeton, NJ, Princeton University: 108.
	
Sternfeld, J. and J. T. Bonner (1977). "Cell differentiation in Dictyostelium under submerged conditions." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 74: 268-271.
	
Stenhouse, F. O. and K. L. Williams (1977). "Patterning in Dictyostelium discoideum: the proportions of the three differentiated cell types (spore, stalk, and basal disk) in the fruiting body." Dev. Biol. 59: 140-152.
	
Spudich, J., et al. (1977). Organisation and interacton of actin and myosin in non-muscle cells. Cell shape and surface architecture (Progress in clin. biol. res.). J. Revel, U. Henning and C. Fox. New York, A.R. Liss: 545-558.
	
Siu, C. H., et al. (1977). "Rapid accumulation and disappearance of plasma membrane proteins during development of wild-type and mutant strains of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Mol. Biol. 116: 469-488.
	
Scrive, M., et al. (1977). "Alteration of phosphodiesterase activity after 5-bromodeoxyuridine (BUdR) treatment of Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Cell Res. 108: 107-110.
	
Schmidt, W., et al. (1977). "Cytochrome B in plasma membrane enriched fractions from several photoresponsive organisms." Photochem. Photobiol. 26: 407-412.
	
Schindler, J. and M. Sussman (1977). "Effect of NH3 on c-AMP associated activities and extracellular c-AMP production in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 79: 611-617.
	
Schindler, J. and M. Sussman (1977). "Ammonia determines the choice of morphogenetic pathways in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Mol. Biol. 116: 161-169.
	
Saunders, D. A. and B. E. Wright (1977). "Characterization of glucose-6-phosphate-dependent glycogen synthase from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 100: 89-97.
	
Satow, T. (1977). "Malformation of fruiting bodies of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum induced by gamma-ray irradiation." Annu. Rep. Res. Reactor Inst. Kyoto Univ. 10: 62-65.
	
Sampson, J. (1977). "Developmentally regulated cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase in Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell 11: 173-180.
	
Ryter, A. and C. de Chastellier (1977). "Morphometric and cytochemical studies of Dictyostelium discoideum in vegetative phase. Digestive system and membrane turnover." J. Cell Biol. 75: 200-217.
	
Rubin, J. M. (1977). The tip of the pseudoplasmodium as a developmental organizer in the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. Chicago, IL, The University of Chicago.
	
Rossomando, E. F., et al. (1977). "Aggregation-dependent changes in susceptibility of Dictyostelium discoideum to amphotericin B." Antimicrob. Agents Chemother. 11: 858-864.
	
Rosen, S. D., et al. (1977). "Intercellular adhesion in the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium pallidum inhibited by interaction of asialofetuin or specific univalent antibody with endogenous cell surface lectin." Dev. Biol. 61: 202-213.
	
Roos, W., et al. (1977). "Adenylate cyclase activity oscillations as signals for cell aggregation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Nature 266: 259-261.
	
Roos, W., et al. (1977). "Adenylyl cyclase and the control of cell differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Differ. 6: 229-239.
	
Rogge, H., et al. (1977). "Developmental regulation of nuclear glycosyl transfer in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 499: 273-277.
	
Robson, G. E. and K. L. Williams (1977). "The mitotic chromosomes of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum: a karyotype based on Giemsa banding." J. Gen. Microbiol. 99: 191-200.
	
Robertson, A. (1977). Cellular communication. How animals communicate. T. A. Sebeok. Bloomington, IN, Indiana Univ. Press: 33-44.
	
Rickenberg, H. V., et al. (1977). The effect of pulses of 3':5' cyclic adenosine monophosphate on enzyme formation in non-aggregated amoebae of Dictyostelium discoideum. Development and differentiation in the cellular slime moulds. P. Cappuccinelli and J. Ashworth. Amsterdam, Elsevier/North-Holland: 173-187.
	
Raper, K. B., et al. (1977). "Observations on Guttulinopsis vulgaris and Guttulinopsis nivea." Mycologia 69: 1016-1030.
	
Raman, R. K. (1977). "Cellular aggregation towards steady point sources of attractant." J. Theor. Biol. 64: 43-69.
	
Rahmsdorf, H. J. (1977). "A defined, synthetic growth medium for Dictyostelium discoideum, strain Ax-2." Hoppe-Seyler's Z. Physiol. Chemie 358: 527-529.
	
Porter, J. S. and B. E. Wright (1977). "Partial purification and characterization of citrate synthase from Dictyostelium discoideum." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 181: 155-163.
	
Poff, K. L. and M. Skokut (1977). "Thermotaxis by pseudoplasmodia of Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 74: 2007-2010.
	
Perekalin, D. (1977). "The influence of light and different ATP concentrations on cell aggregation in cyclic AMP sensitive and insensitive species of the cellular slime molds." Arch. Microbiol. 115: 333-337.
	
Pederson, T. (1977). "Isolation and characterization of chromatin from the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochemistry 16: 2771-2777.
	
Parnas and L. A. Segel (1977). "Computer evidence concerning the chemotactic signal in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 25: 191-204.
	
Parish, R. W., et al. (1977). "Biochemical evidence for a DNA repeat length in the chromatin of Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 84: 63-66.
	
Parish, R. W., et al. (1977). Changes in plasma membrane proteins following treatment of Dictyostelium discoideum cells with proteases. Development and differentiation in the cellular slime moulds. P. Cappuccinelli and J. Ashworth. Amsterdam, Elsevier/North-Holland: 85-92.
	
Parish, R. W., et al. (1977). "The effect of proteases on proteins and glycoproteins of Dictyostelium discoideum plasma membranes." Exp. Cell Res. 110: 267-276.
	
Parish, R. W., et al. (1977). "Phosphorylation of the plasma membrane proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 79: 393-395.
	
Parish, R. W. (1977). "Inhibition of Dictyostelium discoideum beta-glucosidase by purines." J. Bacteriol. 129: 1642-1644.
	
Palatnik, C. M., et al. (1977). "Isolation and characterization of transfer RNAs from Dictyostelium discoideum during growth and development." J. Biol. Chem. 252: 694-703.
	
Oohata, A. and I. Takeuchi (1977). "Separation and biochemical characterization of the two cell types present in the pseudoplasmodium of Dictyostelium mucoroides." J. Cell Sci. 24: 1-9.
	
O'Day, D. H. (1977). Microcyst germination in the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium pallidum: requirements for macromolecular synthesis and specific enzyme accumulation. Eukaryotic microbes as model developmental systems. D. H. O'Day and P. A. Horgen. New York, Dekker: 353-372.
	
Nozu, K. and T. Ohnishi (1977). Radiation effects on gene expression of Dictyostelium discoideum. I. UV-inhibition of morphological differentiation and its recovery. J. Radiat. Res.
	
North, M. J. and R. Turner (1977). "Diamine content of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum: presence of 1,3-diaminopropane and putrescine." Microbios Lett. 4: 221-228.
	
Nomura, T., et al. (1977). "Cytokinin activity of discadenine: a spore germination inhibitor of Dictyostelium discoideum." Phytochem. 16: 1819-1820.
	
Nivet, C. (1977). "Enzyme histochemical-immunochemical characterization of cAMP phosphodiesterase in Dictyostelium discoideum in gel medium." FEBS Lett. 84: 174-178.
	
Newell, P. C., et al. (1977). New techniques for cell fusion and linkage analysis of Dictyostelium discoideum. Development and differentiation in the cellular slime moulds. P. Cappuccinelli and J. Ashworth. Amsterdam, Elsevier/North-Holland: 51-61.
	
Newell, P. C., et al. (1977). "Sensitivity to Bacillus subtilis: A novel system for selection of heterozygous diploids of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 100: 207-211.
	
Newell, P. C. (1977). Aggregation and cell surface receptors in cellular slime molds. Microbial Interactions. J. L. Reissig. London, Chapman and Hall: 3-57.
	
Newell, P. C. (1977). "How cells communicate: the system used by slime moulds." Endeavour (new series) 1: 63-68.
	
Monier, F., et al. (1977). "Incorporation of 5-bromo-2'deoxyuridine (BUdR) in Dictyostelium discoideum DNA." Exp. Cell Res. 107: 397-404.
	
McMahon, D., et al. (1977). "The involvement of the plasma membrane in the development of Dictyostelium discoideum. I. Purification of the plasma membrane." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 465: 224-241.
	
McCoy, M. K. and M. A. Clark (1977). Organophosphate-enhancement of aggregation in the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium violaceum: Relationship to the esterases of aggregating populations. Genetics.
	
Mato, J. M., et al. (1977). "Cyclic AMP and folic acid mediated cyclic GMP accumulation in Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 79: 331-336.
	
Mato, J. M., et al. (1977). "An acrasin-like attractant from yeast extract specific for Dictyostelium lacteum." Dev. Biol. 57: 450-453.
	
Mato, J. M., et al. (1977). "3':5'-Cyclic AMP-dependent 3':5'-cyclic GMP accumulation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 74: 2348-2351.
	
Mato, J. M., et al. (1977). "Unified control of chemotaxis and cAMP mediated cGMP accumulation by cAMP in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 77: 399-402.
	
Mato, J. M. and T. M. Konijn (1977). Chemotactic signal and cyclic GMP accumulation in Dictyostelium. Development and differentiation in the cellular slime moulds. P. Cappuccinelli and J. M. Ashworth. Amsterdam, Elsevier/North-Holland: 93-103.
	
Mato, J. M. and T. M. Konijn (1977). "The chemotactic activity of cyclic AMP and AMP derivatives with substitutions in the phosphate moiety in Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 75: 173-176.
	
Marin, F. T. (1977). "Regulation of development in Dictyostelium discoideum: II. Regulation of early cell differentiation by amino acid starvation and intercellular interaction." Dev. Biol. 60: 389-395.
	
Malchow, D., et al. (1977). cAMP receptors and periodic activation of adenyl cyclase in Dictyostelium discoideum. Experientia.
	
Maizels, N. (1977). Using cloned DNA to reveal the geography of the Dictyostelium genome. J. Supramol. Struct.
	
Maizels, N. (1977). Tricks for RNA labeling and partial restriction digests. Molecular approaches to eucaryotic genetic systems. (ICN-UCLA symp. mol. cell. biol.). G. Wilcox, J. Abelson and C. F. Fox. New York, Ac. Press: 247-250.
	
Maeda, Y. and G. Gerisch (1977). "Vesicle formation in Dictyostelium discoideum cells during oscillations of cAMP synthesis and release." Exp. Cell Res. 110: 119-126.
	
Maeda, Y. and G. Eguchi (1977). "Polarized structures of cells in the aggregating cellular slime mold D. discoideum: An electron microscopy study." Cell Struct. Funct. 2: 159-169.
	
Maeda, Y. (1977). "Role of cyclic AMP in the polarized movement of the migrating pseudoplasmodium of Dictyostelium discoideum." Devel. Growth Differ. 19: 201-295.
	
MacInnes, M. A. and D. W. Francis (1977). Altered control of cyclic AMP oscillations in an aggregation mutant of Dictyostelium mucoroides. Adv. Cycl. Nucl. Res.
	
MacInnes, M. A. (1977). Genetic and physiological analyses of cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate release in aggregation mutants of Dictyostelium mucoroides (dm7). Newark, DE, University of Delaware: 176.
	
MacDonald, N. (1977). Biochemical oscillators. (News & Views). Nature. 270: 100-101.
	
Loomis, W. F. (1977). How many developmental genes are there in Dictyostelium? J. Supramol. Struct.
	
Loomis, W., et al. (1977). Independent and dependent sequences in development of Dictyostelium. Eukaryotic microbes as model developmental systems. D. H. O'Day and P. A. Horgen. New York, Dekker: 177-193.
	
Lonski, J. U. and N. Pesut (1977). "Induction of encystment of Polysphondylium pallidum amoeba." Can. J. Microbiol. 23: 518-521.
	
Lonski, J. (1977). "Evidence for a second chemotactic system in the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium." Dev. Biol. 55: 85-91.
	
Long, B. H. and E. L. Coe (1977). "Fatty acid compositions of lipid fractions from vegetative cells and mature sorocarps of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Lipids 12: 414-417.
	
Lodish, H. L. (1977). Synthesis and structure of messenger RNA in the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. Cell differentiation in microorganisms, plants, and animals. L. Nover and K. Mothes. Jena and Amsterdam, VEB Gustav Fischer Verlag and North-Holland: 126-145.
	
Lodish, H. F. and T. H. Alton (1977). Translational and transcriptional control of protein synthesis during differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum. Development and differentation in the cellular slime moulds. P. Cappuccinelli and J. M. Ashworth. Amsterdam, Elsevier/North-Holland: 253-272.
	
Lewis, K. E. and D. H. O'Day (1977). "Sex hormone of Dictyostelium discoideum is volatile." Nature 268: 730-731.
	
Lerner, R. A., et al. (1977). Use of common plant lectins for isolation and characterization of constitutive and developmentally regulated cell surface associated glycoproteins of Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Supramol. Struct.
	
Lakhani, S. (1977). "Cell differentiation-II: Control mechanisms." The Botanica 27: 100-102.
	
Kuserk, F. T., et al. (1977). "An examination of the methods for isolating cellular slime molds (Dictyosteliida) from soil samples." J. Protozool. 24: 297-299.
	
Komuniecki, P. R. (1977). The pathway of glutamate oxidation in the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum. Amherst, MA, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, Hampshire, Mount Holyoke and Smith Colleges: 123.
	
Kofude, E. (1977). "The collection of Dictyostelia for education." Collecting and Breeding 39: 134-137.
	
Kobilinsky, L. and D. S. Beattie (1977). "The reversibility of the ethidium bromide-induced alterations of mitochondrial structure and function in the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Bioenerg. Biomembr. 9: 73-90.
	
Kobilinsky, L. and D. Beattie (1977). "Respiratory competence of Dictyostelium discoideum spores." J. Bacteriol. 132: 113-117.
	
Kobilinsky, L. (1977). Studies of mitochondrial biogenesis and some developmental processes of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. New York, NY, City University of New York: 193.
	
Klein, C. and M. H. Juliani (1977). "cAMP-induced changes in cAMP-binding sites on Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae." Cell 10: 329-335.
	
Klein, C. and M. Darmon (1977). "Effects of cAMP on adenylate cyclase and the phosphodiesterase of Dictyostelium discoideum." Nature 268: 76-78.
	
Klein, C., et al. (1977). "Periodic changes in adenylate cyclase and cAMP receptors in Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 76: 145-147.
	
Klein, C. (1977). "Changes in adenylate cyclase during differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum." FEMS Microbiol. Lett. 1: 17-20.
	
King, A. C. and W. A. Frazier (1977). "Reciprocal periodicity in cyclic AMP binding and phosphorylation of differentiating Dictyostelium discoideum cells." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 78: 1093-1099.
	
Kindle, K. L., et al. (1977). Analysis of clones containing Dictyostelium DNA which codes for messenger RNA. J. Supramol. Struct.
	
Kindle, K. L. and R. A. Firtel (1977). Analysis of recombinant plasmids carrying gene sequences from Dictyostelium. Molecular approaches to eucaryotic genetic systems. (ICN-UCLA symp.). G. Wilcox, J. Abelson and C. F. Fox. New York, Ac. Press: 301-307.
	
Kindle, K., et al. (1977). Analysis of gene structure and transcription in Dictyostelium discoideum. Development and differentiation in the cellular slime moulds. P. Cappuccinelli and J. M. Ashworth. Amsterdam, Elsevier/North-Holland: 273-290.
	
Killick, K. A. (1977). "A radiometric assay for trehalase-6-phosphate synthetase." Anal. Biochem. 100: 89-97.
	
Killick, K. (1977). "A coupled spectrophotometric assay for trehalose 6-phosphate synthetase from Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Mycol. 1: 221-229.
	
Kessin, R. (1977). "Mutations causing rapid development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell 10: 703-708.
	
Keating, M. T. and J. T. Bonner (1977). "Negative chemotaxis in cellular slime molds." J. Bacteriol. 130: 144-147.
	
Kanda, F. and S. Aranai (1977). "Notes on the cellular slime molds in the Kushiro moor." Kushiro ronsyu 9: 147-150.
	
Kanda, F. (1977). "Nuclear ribonucleoprotein particles in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biochem. 82: 59-66.
	
Juliani, M. H. and C. Klein (1977). "Calcium ion effects on cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate bindings to the plasma membrane of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 497: 369-376.
	
Jones, G. E., et al. (1977). "A requirement for filopodia in the adhesion of pre-aggregative cells of Dictyostelium dsicoideum." Exp. Cell Res. 107: 451-455.
	
Johnson, G., et al. (1977). "Do cellular slime molds form intercellular junctions?" Science 197: 1300.
	
Jermyn, K. A., et al. (1977). Components of the plasma membrane of Dictyostelium discoideum during aggregation. Development and differentiation in the cellular slime moulds. P. Cappuccinelli and J. M. Ashworth. Amsterdam, Elsevier/North-Holland: 79-84.
	
Jacobson, B. S. (1977). "Isolation of plasma membrane from eukaryotic cells on polylysine-coated polyacrylamide beads." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 471: 331-335.
	
Jacobson, A., et al. (1977). Poly(A) metabolism in Dictyostelium discoideum. Molecular approaches to eucaryotic genetic systems (ICN-UCLA symp. mol. cell. biol.). G. Wilcox, J. Abelson and C. F. Fox. New York, Ac. Press: 291-299.
	
Ishikawa, A., et al. (1977). "Inhibition by bacteria of pseudoplasmodium formation of Dictyostelium discoideum." Devel. Growth Differ. 19: 77-83.
	
Hohl, H. R., et al. (1977). Influence of cAMP on cell differentiation and morphogenesis in Polysphondylium. Development and differentiation in the cellular slime moulds. P. Cappuccinelli and J. Ashworth. Amsterdam, Elsevier/North-Holland: 149-172.
	
Hoffman, S. and D. McMahon (1977). "The role of the plasma membrane in the development of Dictyostelium discoideum. II. Developmental and topographic analysis of polypeptide and glycoprotein composition." Biochem. Biophys. Acta 465: 242-259.
	
Hashimoto, Y., et al. (1977). Gamma-ray irradiation effects on morphology of the cellular slime mold. J. Radiat. Res.
	
Hara, Y. (1977). "Cellular slime molds (Acrasieae) of the Tenryu River region. I. Distribution of cellular slime molds in chestnut and red-pine forest soils." Jap. J. Ecol. 27: 141-146.
	
Hames, B. D., et al. (1977). In vitro translation and translational control in Dictyostelium discoideum. Development and differentiation in the cellular slime moulds. P. Cappuccinelli and J. M. Ashworth. Amsterdam, Elsevier/North-Holland: 243-251.
	
Hahn, G. L., et al. (1977). Identification of cyclic AMP receptors in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum using a photo affinity analog. J. Cell Biol.
	
Gross, J., et al. (1977). Cell contact, signalling and gene expression in Dictyostelium discoideum. Development and differentiation in the cellular slime moulds. P. Cappuccinelli and J. M. Ashworth. Amsterdam, Elsevier/North-Holland: 135-147.
	
Gregg, J. H. and G. C. Karp (1977). An early phase in Dictyostelium cell differentiation revealed by 3H-L-fucose incorporation. Development and differentiation in the cellular slime moulds. P. Cappuccinelli and J. M. Ashworth. Amsterdam, Elsevier/North-Holland: 297-310.
	
Grabel, L. B. and P. A. Farnsworth (1977). "The endocytosis of concanavalin A by Dictyostelium discoideum cells." Exp. Cell Res. 105: 285-289.
	
Grabel, L. and W. F. Loomis (1977). Cellular interaction regulating early biochemical differentiation in Dictyostelium. Development and differentiation in the cellular slime moulds. P. Cappuccinelli and J. M. Ashworth. Amsterdam, Elsevier/North-Holland: 189-199.
	
Goldbeter, A. and L. A. Segel (1977). "Unified mechanism for relay and oscillation of cyclic AMP in Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 74: 1543-1547.
	
Goldbeter, A. (1977). Nonequilibrium behavior of biochemical systems. Alcohol and aldehyde metabolizing systems. Intermediary metabolism and neurochemistry. R. G. Thurman, J. R. Williamson, H. R. Drott and B. Chance. New York, Ac. Press: 1-16.
	
Goldbeter, A. (1977). "Thermodynamic and kinetic aspects of regulation." Acta Biochim. Biophys. Acad. Sci. Hung. 12: 141-148.
	
Giri, J. G. and H. L. Ennis (1977). "Protein and RNA synthesis during spore germination in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 77: 282-289.
	
Gilkes, N. R. and G. Weeks (1977). "An improved procedure for the purification of plasma membranes from Dictyostelium discoideum." Can. J. Biochem. 55: 1232-1236.
	
Gilkes, N. R. and G. Weeks (1977). "The purification and characterization of Dictyostelium discoideum plasma membranes." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 464: 142-156.
	
Gerisch, G., et al. (1977). Periodic cyclic-AMP signals and membrane differentiation in Dictyostelium. Cell Interactions in Differentiation (Sigrid Juselius Symposium, Helsinki). N. Y. Karkinen-Jaaskelainen, L. Saxen and L. Weiss. New York, Ac. Press: 377-388.
	
Gerisch, G., et al. (1977). Cyclic AMP signals and the control of cell aggregation in Dictyostelium discoideum. Development and differentiation in the cellular slime moulds. P. Cappuccinelli and J. M. Ashworth. Amsterdam, Elsevier/North-Holland: 105-124.
	
Gerisch, G. (1977). Membrane sites implicated in cell adhesion: their developmental control in Dictyostelium discoideum. International Cell Biology 1976-1977. B. R. Brinkley and K. R. Porter. New York, Rockefeller Univ. Press: 36-42.
	
George, R. P. (1977). "Disruption of multicellular organization in the cellular slime molds by cyclic AMP." Cell Diff. 5: 293-300.
	
Garrod, D. R. and D. Forman (1977). "Pattern formation in the absence of polarity in Dictyostelium discoideum." Nature 265: 144-146.
	
Freeze, H. and W. F. Loomis (1977). "The role of the fibrillar component of the surface sheath in the morphogenesis of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 56: 184-194.
	
Free, S. J. (1977). alpha-Mannosidase regulation during development in Dictyostelium discoideum. Stanford, CA, Stanford University: 149.
	
Frazier, W. A. and B. Pardos (1977). Heterogeneity in the cell adhesion carbohydrate binding proteins of the cellular slime molds. J. Supramol. Struct.
	
Frankel, G., et al. (1977). "Organization of the ribosomal RNA genes of Dictyostelium discoideum. Mapping of the transcribed region." J. Mol. Biol. 109: 539-558.
	
Franke, J. and R. Kessin (1977). "A defined minimal medium for axenic strains of Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 74: 2157-2161.
	
Francis, D., et al. (1977). Genetics and development in Dictyostelium and Polysphondylium. Eukaryotic microbes as model developmental systems. D. H. O'Day and P. A. Horgen. New York, Dekker: 155-177.
	
Francis, D. (1977). "Synthesis of developmental proteins in morphogenetic mutants of Polysphondylium pallidum." Dev. Biol. 55: 339-346.
	
Forman, D. and D. R. Garrod (1977). "Pattern formation in Dictyostelium discoideum. II. Differentiation and pattern formation in non-polar aggregates." J. Embryol. Exp. Morphol. 40: 229-243.
	
Forman, D. and D. R. Garrod (1977). "Pattern formation in Dictyostelium discoideum. I. Development of prespore cells ant its relationship to the pattern of the fruiting body." J. Embryol. Exp. Morphol. 40: 215-228.
	
Firtel, R. A. and W. F. Loomis (1977). Slime mold workshop. Molecular approaches to eucaryotic genetic systems. (UCLA-ICN symp.). G. Wilcox, J. Abelson and C. F. Fox. New York, Ac. Press: 287-289.
	
Firtel, R. A., et al. (1977). Gene structure and transcription in Dictyostelium. J. Supramol. Struct.
	
Firtel, R. A. and A. Jacobson (1977). Structural organization and transcription of the genome of Dictyostelium discoideum. International review of biochemistry. Biochemistry of cell differentiation II. J. Paul. Baltimore, Univ. Park Press: 377-429.
	
Ferguson, R. and D. R. Soll (1977). "Soluble factors and the regulation of early rate-limiting events in slime mold morphogenesis." Exp. Cell Res. 106: 159-165.
	
Farnham, C. J. M. (1977). Cytochemical localization of adenylate cyclase and 3',5'-nucleotide phosphodiesterase in Dictyostelium. Gainesville, FL, University of Florida: 120.
	
Elder, J. H., et al. (1977). "Radioiodination of proteins in single polyacrylamide gel slices." J. Biol. Chem. 252: 6510-6515.
	
Eitle, E. and G. Gerisch (1977). "Implication of developmentally regulated concanavalin A binding proteins of Dictyostelium in cell adhesion and cyclic AMP regulation." Cell Differ. 6: 339-346.
	
Eisenberg and D. Francis (1977). "The breeding system of Polysphondylium pallidum, a cellular slime mold." J. Protozool. 24: 182-183.
	
Eckert, B. S., et al. (1977). "Structural and biochemical aspects of cell motility in amebas of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Biol. 72: 339-350.
	
Dykstra, M. J. (1977). "The possible phylogenetic significance of mitochondrial configurations in the acrasid cellular slime molds with reference to members of the Eumycetozoa and Fungi." Mycologia 69: 579-591.
	
Durston, A. J. and F. Vork (1977). The control of morphogenesis and pattern in the Dictyostelium discoideum slug. Development and differentiation in the cellular slime moulds. P. Cappuccinelli and J. Ashworth. Amsterdam, Elsevier/North-Holland: 17-26.
	
Durston, A. J. (1977). The control of morphogenesis in Dictyostelium discoideum. Eucaryotic microbes as model developmental systems. D. H. O'Day and P. A. Horgen. New York, M. Dekker: 294-321.
	
Douvas, A. S., et al. (1977). Evidence for the presence of contractile-like nonhistone proteins in the nuclei and chromatin of eukaryotes. The molecular biology of the mammalian genetic apparatus. O. Ts and O. P. Paul. Amsterdam, Elsevier/North-Holland: 143-163.
	
Dingermann, T. h., et al. (1977). "Modified bases in tRNA of Dictyostelium discoideum: Alterations in the ribothymidine content during development." FEBS Lett. 80: 205-208.
	
Dingermann, T., et al. (1977). Developmental changes in tRNA modification and aminoacyl tRNA synthetase activities of Dictyostelium discoideum. Hoppe-Seyler's Z. Physiol. Chemie.
	
DeToma, F. (1977). "Isolation and regulatory properties of two glutamate dehydrogenases from the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 178: 581-587.
	
Deering, R. A. and M. Sheely (1977). Mutation induction in vegetative and developing cells of Dictyostelium discoideum. Development and differentiation in the cellular slime moulds. P. Cappuccinelli and J. M. Ashworth. Amsterdam, Elsevier/North-Holland: 63-68.
	
De Toma, F. J., et al. (1977). "The effect of tosyl lysine chloromethyl ketone on the activity of uridine diphosphoglucose pyrophosphorylase of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 74: 350-355.
	
de Chastellier, C. and A. Ryter (1977). "Changes on the cell surface and of the digestive apparatus of Dictyostelium discoideum during the starvation period triggering aggregation." J. Cell Biol. 75: 218-236.
	
Darmon, M., et al. (1977). "Phenotypic suppression of morphogenetic mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 58: 174-184.
	
Dahlberg, K. and D. Cotter (1977). Autoactivation of spore germination among members of the Dictyosteliaceae. Abstracts of papers presented at the 2nd international mycological congress.
	
D'Addone Hanish, L. M. (1977). A new endogenous inhibitor of cell division in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. New York, NY, City University of New York: 116.
	
Crean, E. V. and E. F. Rossomando (1977). "Synthesis of a mannosyl polypropenol by the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 498: 439-441.
	
Crean, E. V. and E. F. Rossomando (1977). "Developmental changes in membrane-bound enzymes of Dictyostelium discoideum detected by concanavalin A-sepharose affinity chromatography." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 75: 488-495.
	
Coukell, M. B. and N. M. Roxby (1977). "Linkage analysis of developmental mutations in aggregation deficient mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Gen. Genet. 151: 275-288.
	
Coukell, M. B. (1977). Parasexual genetic analysis of aggregation loci in Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Supramol. Struct.
	
Coukell, M. B. (1977). "Evidence against mutational hot-spots at aggregation loci in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Gen. Genet. 151: 269-273.
	
Cotter, D. A. and K. R. Dahlberg (1977). "Isolation and characterization of Dictyostelium discoideum spore mutants with altered activation requirements." Exp. Mycol. 1: 107-115.
	
Cotter, D. A. (1977). "The effects of osmotic pressure changes on the germination of Dictyostelium discoideum spores." Can. J. Microbiol. 23: 1170-1177.
	
Cordingley, J. S. and B. D. Hames (1977). "Specific cleavage of ribosomal RNA in Dictyostelium discoideum ribosomes." FEBS Lett. 82: 263-266.
	
Condeelis, J. S. and D. L. Taylor (1977). "The contractile basis of amoeboid movement. V. The control of gelation, solation, and contraction in extracts from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Biol. 74: 901-927.
	
Cohen, M. S. (1977). The cyclic adenosine monophosphate control system in the development of Dictyostelium discoideum. Chicago, IL, The University of Chicago.
	
Cohen, M. S. (1977). "The cyclic AMP control system in the development of Dictyostelium discoideum. I. Cellular dynamics." J. Theor. Biol. 69: 57-85.
	
Clarke, M. and J. A. Spudich (1977). "Nonmuscle contractile proteins: the role of actin and myosin in cell motility and shape determination." Annu. Rev. Biochem. 46: 797-822.
	
Clark, M. A. (1977). Organophosphate inhibition of macrocyst differentiation in the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium violaceum. Genetics.
	
Clark, M. A. (1977). "Possible role for acetylcholine in aggregation centre spacing in Polysphondylium violaceum." Nature 266: 170-172.
	
Charlesworth, M. C. and R. W. Parish (1977). "Further studies on basic nucleoproteins from the cellular slime mold Dictyosteium discoideum." Eur. J. Biochem. 75: 241-250.
	
Chang, M. T. and K. B. Raper (1977). Macrocyst formation in Dictyostelium rosarium. Abstr. Annu. Mtg. Am. Soc. Microbiol.
	
Chang, C. M., et al. (1977). "Cell surface location of an endogenous lectin and its receptor in Polysphondylium pallidum." Exp. Cell Res. 104: 101-109.
	
Cappuccinelli, P., et al. (1977). Tubulin in Dictyostelium discoideum. Development and differentiation in the cellular slime moulds. P. Cappuccinelli and J. M. Ashworth. Amsterdam, Elsevier/North-Holland: 231-241.
	
Cappuccinelli, P. and J. M. Ashworth (1977). Development and differentiation in the cellular slime moulds. Amsterdam, Elsevier/North-Holland Biomedical Press.
	
Bushway, R. J. (1977). Growth, macromolecular syntheses and organophosphate insecticide metabolism in Dictyostelium discoideum exposed to insecticides and ultraviolet light. College Station, TX, Texas A&M University: 132.
	
Brenner, M. (1977). "A simple device for harvesting biological fluids at the microscopic level." Exp. Cell Res. 105: 281-284.
	
Brenner, M. (1977). "Cyclic AMP gradient in migrating pseudoplasmodia of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 252: 4073-4077.
	
Brachet, P. and C. Klein (1977). "Cell responsiveness to cAMP during the aggregation phase of Dictyostelium discoideum. Comparison between the inhibitory action of progesterone and the stimulatory action of EDTA and Ionophore A 23187." Differentiation 8: 1-8.
	
Brachet, P., et al. (1977). A phosphodiesterase-defective mutant of Dictyostelium discoideum. Development and Differentiation in the Cellular Slime Moulds. P. Cappuccinelli and J. Ashworth. Amsterdam, Elsevier/North-Holland: 125-133.
	
Bonner, J. T. (1977). "Some aspects of chemotaxis using the cellular slime molds as an example." Mycologia 69: 443-459.
	
Boiteux, A., et al. (1977). "Oscillatory phenomena in biological systems." FEBS Lett. 75: 1-4.
	
Benson, M. R. and D. P. Mahoney (1977). "The distribution of dictyostelid slime molds in southern California with taxonomic notes on selected species." Am. J. Bot. 64: 496-503.
	
Batts-Young, B., et al. (1977). "Precursors of ribosomal RNA in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. Isolation and characterization." J. Biol. Chem. 252: 3952-3960.
	
Batts-Young, B. (1977). Synthesis and processing of ribosomal-RNA in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. Cambridge, MA, Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT).
	
Barra, J. (1977). "Synergie entre mutants d'aggregation de Dictyostelium discoideum. (Coaggregation between aggregateless mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum.)." C.R. Acad. Sc. Paris, Serie D 284: 689-692.
	
Barondes, S. H. (1977). Endogenous developmentally regulated lectins in cellular slime molds and embryonic muscle. J. Supramol. Struct.
	
Bard, R. F. (1977). The properties of alkaline phosphatase in the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum. Miami, FL, Miami University: 127.
	
Bard, R. and R. Pfohl (1977). Kinetic properties of immobilized and soluble alkaline phosphatase from Dictyostelium discoideum. Am. Zool.
	
Barclay, S. L. and E. J. Henderson (1977). A method for selecting aggregation defective mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum. Development and differentiation in the cellular slime moulds. P. Cappuccinelli and J. Ashworth. Amsterdam, Elsevier/North-Holland: 291-296.
	
Ashworth, J. M. (1977). The developmental programme of Dictyostelium discoideum. Cell differentiation in microorganisms, plants, and animals. L. Nover and K. Mothes. Jena and Amsterdam, VEB Gustav Fischer Verlag and North-Holland: 340-350.
	
Alton, T. H. and H. F. Lodish (1977). "Developmental changes in mRNA's and protein synthesis in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 60: 180-206.
	
Alton, T. H. and H. F. Lodish (1977). "Translational control of protein synthesis during the early stages of differentiation of the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell 12: 301-310.
	
Alton, T. H. and H. F. Lodish (1977). "Synthesis of developmentally regulated proteins in Dictyostelium discoideum which are dependent on continued cell-cell interaction." Dev. Biol. 60: 207-216.
	
Alton, T. H. (1977). Regulation of protein synthesis during development of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. Cambridge, MA, Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT).
	
Al-Ayash, A. J. and M. T. Wilson (1977). "Isolation and properties of cytochrome c from the slime mould, Dictyostelium discoideum." Compar. Biochem. Physiol. 56B: 147-152.
	
, H. and W. Loomis (1977). "Isolation and characterization of a component of the surface sheath of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 252: 820-824.
	
(1977). E Pluribus Unum: lowly slime mold offers clue to many-celled organsims. Harvard Gazette. April 5: 5.
	
Yagura, T., et al. (1976). "Evidence for two alpha-amanatin-resistant RNA polymerases in vegetative amoebae of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 68: 183-189.
	
Yagura, T. and M. Iwabuchi (1976). "DNA, RNA and protein synthesis during germination of spores in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Cell Res. 100: 79-87.
	
Wurster, B., et al. (1976). "Preliminary characterization of the acrasin of the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium violaceum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 73: 795-799.
	
Wurster, B. (1976). Responses of amoebae of the cellular slime mould Polysphondylium violaceum to their specific chemoattractant. Hoppe-Seyler's Z. Physiol. Chemie.
	
Wurster, B. (1976). "Temperature dependence of biochemical oscillations in cell suspensions of Dictyostelium discoideum." Nature 260: 703-404.
	
Wright, B. E. (1976). Kinetic modeling of differentiation in the cellular slime mold. Mathematical models of metabolic regulation (Symposia Biologica Hungarica). T. Keleti and S. Lakatos. Budapest, Akademiai Kiado: 215-226.
	
Williams, K. L. and P. C. Newell (1976). "A genetic study of aggregation in the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum using complementation analysis." Genetics 82: 287-307.
	
Williams, K. L. (1976). "Isolation of strains of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum capable of growing after a single passage in axenic medium." Appl. Env. Microbiol. 32: 635-637.
	
Williams, K. L. (1976). "Mutation frequency at a recessive locus in haploid and diploid strains of a slime mould." Nature 260: 785-786.
	
Wier, P. W. (1976). The effect of cyclic AMP, cylic AMP phosphodiesterase and their relationship on the length of the interphase in the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum. Princeton, NJ, Princeton University: 48.
	
West, C. M. and D. McMahon (1976). "A physical explanation for multiple-cell classes after centrifugation in colloidal silica gradients." Anal. Biochem. 76: 589-605.
	
West, C. and D. McMahon (1976). Multiple concanavalin A receptors and discoidin in plasma membranes from Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Welker, D. L. and R. A. Deering (1976). "Genetic analysis of radiation-sensitive mutations in the slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 97: 1-10.
	
Weeks, G. (1976). "The manipulation of the fatty acid composition of Dictyostelium discoideum and its effect on cell differentiation." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 450: 21-32.
	
Watts, D. J. and T. E. Treffry (1976). "Culmination in the slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum studied with a scanning electron microscope." J. Embryol. Exp. Morph. 35: 323-333.
	
Warren, A. J., et al. (1976). "Genetic and morphological study of aggregation in the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium violaceum." Genetics 83: 25-47.
	
Wallace, M. A. and K. B. Raper (1976). The bowre of blisse: development of macrocysts in Dictyostelium discoideum. Meeting on Dictyostelium, CSH Lab.
	
Tuchman, J., et al. (1976). "Effects of differentiated membranes on the developmental program of the cellular slime mold." Dev. Biol. 51: 77-85.
	
Tsang, A. S. and M. B. Coukell (1976). Regulation of multiple cyclic AMP phosphodiesterases during early development of Dictyostelium discoideum. Proc. Can. Fed. Biol. Soc.
	
Treffry, J. E. and D. J. Watts (1976). "Development of Dictyostelium discoideum: a study by scanning electron microscopy." Micron 7: 11-20.
	
Traub, F. and R. Hohl (1976). "A new concept for the taxonomy of the family Dictyosteliaceae (cellular slime molds)." Am. J. Bot. 63: 664-672.
	
Town, C. D., et al. (1976). Analysis of stalk cell induction by cyclic AMP and the isolation of mutants with an altered response. Meeting on Dictyostelium, CSH Lab.
	
Town, C. D., et al. (1976). "Cell differentiation without morphogenesis in Dictyostelium discoideum." Nature 262: 717-719.
	
Town, C. D. (1976). Cyclic AMP receptor activity in developing cells of Dictyostelium discoideum. Surface membrane receptor. R. A. Bradshaw and e. al. New York, Plenum Press: 443-453.
	
Thomas, D. A. and B. E. Wright (1976). "Glycogen phosphorylase in Dictyostelium discoideum. II. Synthesis and degradation during differentiation." J. Biol. Chem. 251: 1258-1263.
	
Thomas, D. A. and B. E. Wright (1976). "Glycogen phosphorylase in Dictyostelium discoideum I. Purification and properties of the enzyme." J. Biol. Chem. 251: 1253-1257.
	
Sussman, M. and R. Brackenbury (1976). "Biochemical and molecular-genetic aspects of cellular slime mold development." Annu. Rev. Plant Physiol. 27: 229-265.
	
Sussman, M. (1976). The genesis of multicellular organization and the control of gene expression in Dictyostelium discoideum. Progress in molecular and subcellular biology. F. E. Hahn. New York, Springer-Verlag: 103-131.
	
Soll, D. R., et al. (1976). "Stationary phase and the cell cycle of Dictyostelium discoideum in liquid nutrient medium." J. Cell Sci. 20: 513-523.
	
Smart, J. E. and J. Tuchman (1976). "Inhibition of the development of Dictyostelium discoideum by isolated plasma membranes." Dev. Biol. 51: 63-76.
	
Sklarow, S. S. (1976). Purine metabolite changes associated with the pre-aggregation phase in the life cycle of the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum. Washington, DC, Georgetown University: 154.
	
Siu, C. H., et al. (1976). "Developmentally regulated proteins of the plasma membrane of Dictyostelium discoideum. The carbohydrate-binding protein." J. Mol. Biol. 100: 157-178.
	
Satow, T. (1976). "Radiation effects on the species-specific cell sorting-out of the cellular slime molds." Annu. Rep. Res. Reactor Inst. Kyoto Univ. 9: 62-69.
	
Sampson, J. (1976). "Cell patterning in migrating slugs of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Embryol. Exp. Morphol. 36: 663-668.
	
Sameshima, M., et al. (1976). The appearance of multinuclear cells in the life cycle of axenic strains of Dictyostelium discoideum. Meeting on Dictyostelium, CSH Lab.
	
Sakuma, K., et al. (1976). "Conservation of the 5'-terminal nucleotide sequences of ribosomal 18-S RNA in eukaryotes - Differential evolution of large and small ribosomal RNA." Eur. J. Biochem. 63: 339-350.
	
Rutherford, C. L. and B. L. Jefferson (1976). "Trehalose accumulation in stalk and spore cells of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 52: 52-60.
	
Rutherford, C. L. and J. F. Harris (1976). "Localization of glycogen phosphorylase in specific cell types during differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 175: 453-462.
	
Rutherford, C. L. (1976). "Cell specific events occurring during development." J. Embryol. Exp. Morphol. 35: 335-343.
	
Rutherford, C. L. (1976). "Glycogen degradation during migration of presumptive cell types in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 451: 212-222.
	
Rubin, J. (1976). "The signal from fruiting and conus tips of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Embryol. Exp. Morphol. 36: 261-271.
	
Rossomando, E. F. and B. Maldonado (1976). "Inhibition of 5'-nucleotidase activity after growth of Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Cell Res. 100: 383-388.
	
Rossomando, E. F. and M. A. Hesla (1976). "Time-dependent changes in Dictyostelium discoideum adenylate cyclase activity upon incubation with ATP." J. Biol. Chem. 251: 6568-6573.
	
Rossomando, E. F., et al. (1976). "Effect of amphotericin B on growth and membrane permeability in Dictyostelium discoideum." Antimicrob. Agents Chemother. 9: 618-624.
	
Rosen, S. D., et al. (1976). "Inhibition of intercellular adhesion in a cellular slime mould by univalent antibody against a cell-surface lectin." Nature 263: 425-427.
	
Rosen, S., et al. (1976). Isolation of receptor for pallidin, a cell surface lectin from the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium pallidum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Rosen, R. (1976). A preliminary checklist of Arkansas Acrasieae. Arkansas Acad. Sci. Proc.
	
Roos, W. and G. Gerisch (1976). "Receptor-mediated adenylate cyclase activation in Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 68: 170-172.
	
Rifkin, J. L. and R. A. Speisman (1976). "Filamentous extensions of vegetative amoebae of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium." Trans. Am. Microsc. Soc. 95: 165-173.
	
Raman, R. K., et al. (1976). "Differentiation for aggregation in the cellular slime moulds. The emergence of autonomously signalling cells in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 21: 243-259.
	
Raman, R. K. (1976). "Analysis of the chemotactic response during aggregation in Dictyostelium minutum." J. Cell Sci. 20: 497-512.
	
Raman, R. K. (1976). "The autonomous cell in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Theor. Biol. 59: 491-495.
	
Rahmsdorf, H. J., et al. (1976). "Effect of sugars on early biochemical events in development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 73: 3183-3187.
	
Pate, E. F. (1976). A new model of oscillatory chemical signaling in cellular slime mold aggregation. Troy, NY, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute: 155.
	
Parish, R. W. and U. Muller (1976). "The isolation of plasma membranes from the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum using concanavalin A and triton X-100." FEBS Lett. 63: 40-44.
	
Parish, R. W. (1976). "A labile acid phosphatase isozyme associated with the surface of vegetative Dictyostelium discoideum cells." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 444: 802-809.
	
Oohata, A. (1976). "Multiple forms of beta-galactosidase and the changes in its pattern during development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Devel. Growth Differ. 18: 473-480.
	
Oohata, A. (1976). "Changes in beta-galactosidase activity during differentiation and dedifferentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Bot. Mag. Tokyo 89: 115-122.
	
Okamoto, K. and I. Takeuchi (1976). "Changes in activities of two developmentally regulated enzymes induced by disaggregation of the pseudoplasmodia of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 72: 739-746.
	
O'Day, D., et al. (1976). "Microcyst germination in the cellular slime mold, Polysphondylium pallidum. Effects of actinomycin d and cycloheximide on macromolecular synthesis and enzyme accumulation." Exp. Cell Res. 97: 359-365.
	
O'Day, D. (1976). "Acid protease activity during germination of microcysts of the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium pallidum." J. Bacteriol. 125: 1-13.
	
Novak, B. and F. F. Seelig (1976). "Phase-shift model for the aggregation of amoebae: a computer study." J. Theor. Biol. 56: 301-327.
	
North, M. J. and A. J. Campbell (1976). "The effect of epsilon-amino caproic acid on biochemical changes in development of cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 96: 77-85.
	
North, M. and J. Ashworth (1976). "Inhibition of the development of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum by omega-aminocarboxylic acids." J. Gen. Microbiol. 96: 63-75.
	
Nanjundiah, V. and D. Malchow (1976). pH oscillations and cyclic AMP induced pH changes in aggregating slime mold cells. Hoppe-Seyler's Z. Physiol. Chemie.
	
Nanjundiah, V. and D. Malchow (1976). "A theoretical study of the effects of cyclic AMP phosphodiesterases during aggregation in Dictyostelium." J. Cell Sci. 22: 49-58.
	
Nanjundiah, V., et al. (1976). "Effect of temperature on morphogenetic oscilllations in Dictyostelium discoideum." Nature 260: 705.
	
Nanjundiah, V. (1976). "Signal relay by single cells during wave propagation in a cellular slime mold." J. Theor. Biol. 56: 275-282.
	
Muroyama, T., et al. (1976). The chromosome of the cellular slime mold. Meeting on Dictyostelium, CSH Lab.
	
Molday, R., et al. (1976). "Concanavalin A and wheat germ agglutinin receptors on Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Biol. 71: 314-322.
	
Moens, P. B. (1976). "Spindle and kinetochore morphology of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Biol. 68: 113-122.
	
Mockrin, S. C. and J. A. Spudich (1976). Regulation of the interaction of actin and myosin from Dictyostelium discoideum. Fed. Proc.
	
Mockrin, S. C. and J. A. Spudich (1976). "Calcium control of actin-activated myosin adenosine triphosphatase from Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 73: 2321-2325.
	
Miyake, Y. and Y. Fukui (1976). "Parasexual hybridization in cellular slime mold Part 2. The appearance and characterization of interspecific hybrids between Dictyostelium discoideum and Dictyostelium mucoroides." Cell Struct. Funct. 1: 147-154.
	
Mitchison, J. M., et al. (1976). Other types of cellular periodic systems (group report). The molecular basis of circadian rhythms. J. W. Hastings and H. G. Schweiger. Berlin, Abakon Verlag.: 361-372.
	
McMahon, D. and C. West (1976). Transduction of positional information during development. The Cell Surface in Animal Embryogenesis and Development. (Cell surface reviews). G. Poste and G. L. Nicolson. Amsterdam, Elsevier/North-Holland: 449-493.
	
Mato, J. M. and T. M. Konijn (1976). "The activation of cell aggregation by phosphorylation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Cell Res. 99: 328-332.
	
Marin, F. T. (1976). "Regulation of development in Dictyostelium discoideum: I. Initiation of the growth to developmental transition by amino acid starvation." Dev. Biol. 48: 110-117.
	
Marin, F. (1976). The role of amino acid starvation and cell contact in the regulation of early development in Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Malchow, D., et al. (1976). Cyclic AMP receptors at the suface of aggregating Dictyostelium discoideum cells. Surface membrane receptors (NATO adv. study inst. series). R. A. Bradshaw, W. A. Frazier, R. C. Merrell, D. I. Gottlieb and R. A. Hogue-Angeletti. London, New York, Plenum: 437-442.
	
Maizels, N. (1976). "Dictyostelium 17S, 25S, and 5S rDNAs lie within a 38,000 base pair repeated unit." Cell 9: 431-438.
	
MacInnes, M. A. and D. W. Francis (1976). Genetic and physiological studies on tiny aggregation (tag) mutants of Dictyostelium mucoroides (dm-7). Genetics.
	
Loomis, W. F., et al. (1976). "A sequence of dependent stages in the development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 53: 171-177.
	
Loomis, W. F. and S. R. Thomas (1976). "Kinetic analysis of biochemical differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 251: 6252-6258.
	
Loomis, L. W., et al. (1976). "DNA polymerase of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 425: 469-477.
	
Lonski, J. (1976). "The effect of ammonia on fruiting body size and microcyst formation in the cellular slime molds." Dev. Biol. 51: 158-165.
	
Lodish, H. F., et al. (1976). Synthesis and translation of messenger RNA during differentiation of cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. The molecular biology of hormone action (34th symp. soc. dev. biol.). J. Papaconstantinou. New York, Ac. Press: 75-103.
	
Lodish, H. and W. F. Loomis (1976). Abstracts of papers presented at the meeting on Dictyostelium: May 12-May 15, 1976. Cold Spring Harbor, NY, CSH Laboratory.
	
Linkins, A. E. and C. L. Rutherford (1976). Cellulase in spores of Dictyostelium discoideum. Plant Physiol.
	
Lewis, K. E. and D. H. O'Day (1976). "Sexual hormone in the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium purpureum." Can. J. Microbiol. 22: 1269-1273.
	
Kyriazi, H. T. and R. M. Brown Jr (1976). An ultrastructural study of differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum, with special emphasis on cellulose stalk synthesis. Plant Physiol.
	
Kopachik, W. J. (1976). Cyclic AMP regulated cell division in Dictyostelium discoideum, University of Florida: 18.
	
Kobilinsky, L., et al. (1976). "The induction of filopodia in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum by cyclic adenosine monophosphate: mechanism of aggregation." Dev. Biol. 48: 477-481.
	
Klein, C. P. (1976). "Adenylate cyclase activity in Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae and its changes during differentiation." FEBS Lett. 68: 125-128.
	
Klein, C. and M. Darmon (1976). "A differentiation stimulating factor induces cell sensitivity to 3,5'-cyclic AMP pulses in Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 73: 1250-1254.
	
Kilpatrick, D. C. and J. L. Stirling (1976). "Properties and developmental regulation of an alpha-D-galactosidase from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. J. 158: 409-417.
	
Kilpatrick, D. C. (1976). "Metal ion-dependence of alpha-mannosidase-1 from Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Soc. Trans. 4: 1083-1085.
	
Killick, K. (1976). Polyribonucleotide phosphorylase and trehalose-6-phosphate synthetase from myxamoebae of the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Kawai, S. and I. Takeuchi (1976). "Concanavalin A-induced agglutination and binding of Con A to the differentiating cells of Dictyostelium discoideum." Devel. Growth Differ. 18: 311-317.
	
Jones, M. E. and A. Robertson (1976). "Cyclic adenosine monophosphate and the development of Polysphondylium." J. Cell Sci. 22: 41-47.
	
Jones, M. E. (1976). "Aggregation in Polysphondylium." J. Cell Sci. 22: 35-40.
	
Jefferson, B. L. and C. L. Rutherford (1976). "A stalk-specific localization of trehalase activity in Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Cell Res. 103: 127-134.
	
Jefferson, B. L. and C. L. Rutherford (1976). "Cell specific activity of trehalose-6-phosphate synthetase during differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Differ. 5: 189-198.
	
Jefferson, B. L. (1976). Trehalose, trehalose-6-P synthetase, and trehalase in the two cell types during development of Dictyostelium discoideum. Blacksburg, VA, Virg. Polytechnic Inst. State Univ.: 152.
	
Hohl, H. R. (1976). Myxomycetes. Ch. 11. The fungal spore. Form and function. D. J. Weber and W. M. Hess. New York, John Wiley & Sons, Ltd: 463-500.
	
Hoffman, S. and D. McMahon (1976). Plasma membrane polypeptides of D. discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Hayashi, M. and I. Takeuchi (1976). "Quantitative analysis on cell differentiation during morphogenesis of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 50: 302-309.
	
Hashimoto, Y., et al. (1976). "Spore germination promoter of Dictyostelium discoideum excreted by Aerobacter aerogenes." J. Cell Sci. 21: 261-271.
	
Harris, J. F. and C. L. Rutherford (1976). "Primer dependency of glycogen synthetase during differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochemistry 15: 3064-3069.
	
Harris, J. F. and C. L. Rutherford (1976). "Localization of glycogen synthetase during differentiation of presumptive cell types in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Bacteriol. 127: 84-90.
	
Harris, J. F. (1976). Cell-specific activation of glycogen synthetase and glycogen phosphorylase during development of Dictyostelium discoideum. Blacksburg, VA, Virg. Polytechn. Inst. State Univ.: 160.
	
Hames, B. D. (1976). "An improved radiochemical assay for uridine diphosphoglucose pyrophosphorylase." Anal. Biochem. 73: 215-219.
	
Hagiwara, H. (1976). "Cellular slime molds from Mount Margherita (Mts. Ruwenzori), East Africa." Bull. Natl. Sci. Mus. Tokyo, Ser. B 2: 53-60, pl. 51-52.
	
Hagiwara, H. (1976). "Distribution of the Dictyosteliaceae (cellular slime molds) in Mt. Ishizuchi, Shikoku." Trans. Mycol. Soc. Japan 17: 226-237.
	
Guialis, A. and R. A. Deering (1976). "Repair of DNA in ultraviolet light-sensitive and -resistant Dictyostelium discoideum strains." J. Bacteriol. 127: 59-66.
	
Guialis, A. and R. A. Deering (1976). "Inhibition of UV-induced DNA strand breakage in Dictyostelium discoideum by 2,4-dinitrophenol." Photochem. Photobiol. 24: 331-336.
	
Guespin-Michel, J. F., et al. (1976). "Kinetics of 5-bromodeoxyuridine action on Dictyostelium discoideum growth and development." Exp. Cell Res. 98: 184-190.
	
Gross, J. D., et al. (1976). "Signal emission and signal propagation during early aggregation in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 22: 645-656.
	
Goldbeter, A. and S. R. Caplan (1976). "Oscillatory enzymes." Annu. Rev. Biophys. Bioeng. 5: 449-476.
	
Gingle, A. R. and A. Robertson (1976). "The development of the relaying competence in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 20: 21-27.
	
Gingle, A. R. (1976). "Critical density for relaying in Dictyostelim discoideum and its relation to phosphodiesterase secretion into the extracellular medium." J. Cell Sci. 20: 1-20.
	
Gillies, N. E. and N. Hariratnajothi (1976). The radiation sensitivity of "Dictyostelium discoideum". Br. J. Radiol.
	
Gillette, M. L. U. (1976). The role of the cell surface in aggregation of the cellular slime molds Dictyostelium discoideum and D. mucoroides: morphological and biochemical studies using concanavalin A. Toronto, ON (Canada), University of Toronto.
	
Gerisch, G. and D. Malchow (1976). "Cyclic AMP receptors and the control of cell aggregation in Dictyostelium." Adv. Cycl. Nucl. Res. 7: 49-68.
	
Gerisch, G. and A. Huesgen (1976). "Cell aggregation and sexual differentiation in pairs of aggregation-deficient mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Embryol. Exp. Morphol. 36: 431-442.
	
Gerisch, G. (1976). Cyclic-AMP oscillation and signal transmission in aggregating Dictyostelium discoideum cells. The molecular basis of circadian rhythms. J. W. Hastings and H. G. Schweiger. Berlin, Abakon Verlag: 433-440.
	
Gerisch, G. (1976). "Extracellular cyclic-AMP phosphodiesterase regulation in agar plate cultures of Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Differ. 5: 21-25.
	
Gerisch, G. (1976). Receptors mediating cell aggregation in Dictyostelium discoideum. Surface membrane receptors (NATO adv. study inst. series A). R. A. Bradshaw and e. al. New York, Plenum Press: 67-72.
	
Geltosky, J. E., et al. (1976). "Glycoproteins of the plasma membrane of Dictyostelium discoideum during development." Cell 8: 391-396.
	
Fukui, Y. (1976). "Enzymatic dissociation of nascent macrocysts and partition of the liberated cytophagic giant cells in Dictyostelium mucoroides." Devel. Growth Differ. 18: 145-155.
	
Freeze, H. H. (1976). Isolation and characterization of structural components of Dictyostelium discoideum. La Jolla, CA, University of California, San Diego (UCSD): 208.
	
Free, S. J., et al. (1976). "The structural gene for alpha-mannosidase-1 in Dictyostelium discoideum." Genetics 84: 159-174.
	
Free, S. J., et al. (1976). "alpha-Mannosidase-2: a developmentally regulated enzyme in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 49: 539-543.
	
Frazier, W. A. (1976). "The role of cell surface components in the morphogenesis of the cellular slime mold. (review)." TIBS 1: 130-133.
	
Francis, D. (1976). "Changes in protein synthesis during alternate pathways of differentiation in the cellular slime mold Polysphondylum pallidum." Dev. Biol. 53: 62-72.
	
Firtel, R. A., et al. (1976). "Structural organization and processing of the genetic transcript in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Fed. Proc. 35: 13-22.
	
Firtel, R. A., et al. (1976). "Structural organization of the genome of Dictyostelium discoideum: Analysis by EcoR1 restriction endonuclease." J. Mol. Biol. 102: 831-852.
	
Ferguson, R. and D. R. Soll (1976). "The absence of a growth inhibitor during the log phase of growth of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 52: 158-160.
	
Farnsworth, P. A. and W. F. Loomis (1976). "Quantitation of the spatial distribution of "prespore vacuoles" in pseudoplasmodia of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Embryol. Exp. Morphol. 35: 499-505.
	
Farnsworth, P. (1976). Quantitation of the spatial distribution of prespore vacuoles in pseudoplasmodia. Meeting on Dictyostelium, CSH Lab.
	
Erdos, G. W., et al. (1976). "Effects of light and temperature on macrocyst formation in paired mating types of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Bacteriol. 128: 495-497.
	
Eisenberg, R. M. (1976). "Two-dimensional microdistribution of cellular slime molds in forest soil." Ecology 57: 380-384.
	
Eckert, B. S., et al. (1976). Actin and cell motility in amoebae of the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Eckert, B. S. (1976). Motility of amoebae of the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum during cell aggregation and development. Miami, FL, University of Miami: 103.
	
Dykstra, M. and H. Aldrich (1976). Cytochemistry of the cell coat in slime molds. J. Cell Biol.
	
Durston, A. J., et al. (1976). "Periodic movements of Dictyostelium discoideum sorocarps." Dev. Biol. 52: 173-180.
	
Durston, A. J. (1976). "Tip formation is regulated by an inhibitory gradient in the Dictyostelium discoideum slug." Nature 263: 126-129.
	
Dottin, R., et al. (1976). "5'-Terminal nucleotide sequences of the messenger RNAs of Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell 8: 233-244.
	
Dimond, R. L., et al. (1976). "Characterization and developmental regulation of beta-galactosidase isozymes in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 52: 74-82.
	
Dimond, R. L. and W. F. Loomis (1976). The role of beta-glucosidase activity and relationships between the isozymes. Meeting on Dictyostelium, CSH Lab.
	
Dimond, R. L. and W. F. Loomis (1976). "Structure and function of beta-glucosidases in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 251: 2680-2687.
	
Dimond, R. L., et al. (1976). "Isolation and characterization of mutations affecting UDPG pyrophosphorylase activity in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 50: 169-181.
	
Dent, V. E., et al. (1976). "Behaviour of Dictyostelium discoideum amoeba and Escherichia coli grown together in chemostat culture." Arch. Microbiol. 109: 187-194.
	
Deering, R. A. (1976). Genetic analysis of radiation-sensitive mutation in the slime mould, Dictyostelium discoideum. Meeting on Dictyostelium, CSH Lab.
	
Darmon, M. and C. Klein (1976). "Binding of concanavalin A and its effect on the differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. J. 154: 743-750.
	
Darmon, M. (1976). "Role possible des contacts cellulaires dans l'arret dun programme de differenciation chez Dictyostelium discoideum." C.R. Acad. Sc. Paris, Serie D 282: 1893-1896.
	
D'Addone Hanish, M. (1976). Effect of division inhibitor on macromolecular synthesis in Dictyostelium discoideum in vitro. Meeting on Dictyostelium, CSH Lab.
	
Cotter, D. A. and R. W. O'Connell (1976). "Activation and killing of Dictyostelium discoideum spores with urea." Can. J. Microbiol. 22: 1751-1755.
	
Cotter, D. A., et al. (1976). "Spore germination in Dictyostelium discoideum. II. Effects of dimethyl sulfoxide on post-activation lag as evidence for the multistate model of activation." Arch. Microbiol. 108: 93-98.
	
Cooke, R., et al. (1976). Supramolecular forms of Dictyostelium actin. Cell Motility (Book B - Actin, myosin and associated proteins). R. Goldman, T. Pollard and J. Rosenbaum. Cold Spring Harbor, NY, CSH Lab.: 575-587.
	
Coe, E. L. and W. J. Kuo (1976). Possible involvement of prostaglandins in the cAMP signalling response of the cellular slime mold D. discoideum. Fed. Proc.
	
Cockburn, A. F., et al. (1976). "Organization of the ribosomal RNA genes of Dictyostelium discoideum: mapping of the nontranscribed spacer regions." Cell 9: 605-613.
	
Cockburn, A. F., et al. (1976). Organization of the ribosomal genes of Dictyostelium. Molecular mechanisms in the control of gene expression. (ICN-UCLA symp. mol. cell. biol.). D. P. Nierlich, W. J. Rutter and C. F. Fox. New York, Ac. Press: 599-603.
	
Cleveland, R. F. and R. A. Deering (1976). "Changes in morphogenesis and developmental enzyme levels in Dictyostelium discoideum after gamma irradiation." Int. J. Rad. 29: 463-473.
	
Clark, R. L. (1976). Cell surface proteins during morphogenesis of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum: specific labeling and interaction with exogenous and endogenous lectins. New Haven, CT, Yale University: 140.
	
Clark, M. A. (1976). "Synergistic fruiting body construction by Polysphondylium violaceum mutants." J. Gen. Microbiol. 93: 166-168.
	
Chapleo-Charlesworth, M. R. (1976). The isolation of nuclei and basic nucleoproteins from the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum. Zurich, Switzerland, Univ. Zurich: 110.
	
Chang, M. T. (1976). Macrocysts in Dictyostelium rosarium. Madison, Univ. Wisconsin: 49.
	
Chance, K., et al. (1976). "Effect of cerulenin on the growth and differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Bacteriol. 128: 21-27.
	
Cavender, J. C. (1976). "Cellular slime molds of Southeast Asia. I. Description of new species." Am. J. Bot. 63: 60-70.
	
Cavender, J. C. (1976). "Cellular slime molds of Southeast Asia. II. Occurrence and distribution." Am. J. Bot. 63: 71-73.
	
Carlile, M. J. (1976). Primitive sensory and communication systems: the taxes and tropisms of micro-organisms and cells. New York, Ac. Press.
	
Cappuccinelli, P. and J. Ashworth (1976). "The effect of inhibitors of microtubule and microfilament function on the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Cell Res. 103: 387-393.
	
Bushway, R. J. and A. R. Hanks (1976). "Pesticide inhibition of growth and macro molecular synthesis in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Pesticide Biochem. Physiol. 6: 254-260.
	
Bryant, P. E. (1976). Synthesis of RNA after irradiation in resistant and sensitive strains of the slime-mould Dictyostelium discoideum. Proceedings in Life Sciences. Radiation and Cellular Control Processes. J. Kiefer. Berlin, Heidelberg, New York, Springer-Verlag: 68-79.
	
Bryant, P. E. (1976). "Effects of electrons and neutrons on the synthesis of RNA in resistant and sensitive strains of the slime-mould Dictyostelium discoideum and the modifying effect of caffeine." Int. J. Radiat. Res. 30: 327-338.
	
Brackenbury, R. W. (1976). Regulation of enzyme expression in Dictyostelium discoideum by small molecules and cell association. Waltham, MA, Brandeis University: 111.
	
Brachet, P. (1976). "Differenciation cellulaire. Effet d'un ionophore sur l'agregation de Dictyostelium discoideum." C.R. Acad. Sc. Paris, Serie D 282: 377-379.
	
Bonner, J. T. (1976). Ch. 4.2 - Signalling systems in Dictyostelium. The Developmental Biology of Plants and Animals. C. F. Graham and P. F. Wareing. Philadelphia, W.B. Saunders Company: 204-215.
	
Atryzek, V. (1976). Precocious differentiation of cells resulting from cell interactions during development of the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum. Providence, RI, Brown University: 156.
	
Atryzek, V. (1976). "Alteration in timing of cell differentiation resulting from cell interactions during development of the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 50: 489-501.
	
Atryzek, V. (1976). "Dissociation of developing slime mold cells does not inhibit the developmentally regulated rise in alkaline phosphatase activity." J. Bacteriol. 126: 1005-regulatory genes / trans-acting factors.
	
Ashworth, J. M. (1976). "Control of cell differentiation in the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Soc. Trans. 4: 961-964.
	
Alexander, S. (1976). Effect of trypsin on cell adhesion and cell contact mediated gene expression in Dictyostelium discoideum. Waltham, MA, Brandeis Univ.: 138.
	
Alcantara, F. and G. W. Bazill (1976). "Extracellular cyclic AMP-phosphodiesterase accelerates differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 92: 351-368.
	
Abe, H., et al. (1976). "Structure of discadenine, a spore germination inhibitor from the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Tetrahedron Lett. 42: 3807-3810.
	
, N. E., et al. (1976). "Comparison of sensitivity of spores and amoebae of Dictyostelium discoideum to gamma-rays and ultraviolet light." J. Gen. Microbiol. 92: 229-233.
	
Yu, N. Y. and J. H. Gregg (1975). "Cell contact mediated differentiation in Dictyostelium." Dev. Biol. 47: 310-318.
	
Yu, N. Y. (1975). Cell contact mediated differentiation in Dictyostelium. Gainesville, FL, University of Florida: 57.
	
Yarger, J. and D. Soll (1975). "Transcription and division inhibitors in the medium of stationary phase cultures of the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 390: 46-55.
	
Wright, B. E. and D. J. M. Park (1975). "An analysis of the kinetic positions held by five enzymes of carbohydrate metabolism in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 250: 2219-2226.
	
Wright, B. E. and K. A. Killick (1975). Trehalose metabolism during sporulation of Dictyostelium discoideum spores. Spores. P. Gerhardt, R. N. Costilow and H. L. Sadoff. Washington, DC, A.S.M.: 73-84.
	
Wright, B. E. (1975). Usefulness of developmental mutants in the analysis of biochemical differentiation. Microbiology 75. M. Dworkin and L. Shapiro. Washington, D.C., Am. Soc. Microbiol.: 500-507.
	
Weeks, G. (1975). "Studies of the cell surface of Dictyostelium discoideum during differentiation. Binding of 125I-concanavalin A to the cell surface." J. Biol. Chem. 250: 6706-6710.
	
Weeks, C. and G. Weeks (1975). "Cell surface changes during the differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum. Interaction of cells with concanavalin A." Exp. Cell Res. 92: 372-382.
	
Watts, D. J. and J. E. Treffry (1975). "Incorporation of N-acetylglucosamine into the slime sheath of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 52: 262-264.
	
Watts, D. J. and J. R. Guest (1975). "Studies on the vitamin nutrition of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 86: 333-342.
	
Warren, J., et al. (1975). "Genetic complexity of aggregation in the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium violaceum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 72: 1041-1042.
	
Tanaka, Y. M., et al. (1975). "Partial structure of a spore germination inhibitor from a cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum." Agr. Biol. Chem. 39: 1929-1932.
	
Swan, A. P. and D. R. Garrod (1975). "Cohesive properties of axenically grown cells of the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Cell Res. 93: 479-484.
	
Sussman, M. and C. h. Boschwitz (1975). "An increase of calcium/manganese binding sites in cell ghosts associated with the acquisition of aggregative competence in Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Cell Res. 95: 63-66.
	
Sussman, M. and C. Boschwitz (1975). "Adhesive properties of cell ghosts derived from Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 44: 362-368.
	
Sussman, M., et al. (1975). "Morphogenetic feedback and gene expression in Dictyostelium discoideum." ICN-UCLA Symposia Dev. Biol. 2: 89-108.
	
Sussman, M. (1975). "A note on the synthesis of UDP glucose pyrophosphorylase by D. discoideum." Cellular Slime Mold Newsletter 6: 1-10 (suppl.).
	
Stuchell, R. N., et al. (1975). "Effects of ethidium bromide on the respiratory chain and oligomycin-sensitive adenosine triphosphatase in purified mitochondria from the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 25: 570-576.
	
Spudich, J. and R. Cooke (1975). "Supramolecular forms of actin from amoebae of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 250: 7485-7491.
	
Soll, D. R. and D. R. Waddell (1975). "Morphogenesis in the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. 1. The accumulation and erasure of "morphogenetic information"." Dev. Biol. 47: 292-302.
	
Siu, C. H., et al. (1975). Changes in plasma membrane proteins during development of Dictyostelium discoideum. Developmental biology: Pattern formation, gene regulation. (ICN-UCLA Symp.). D. McMahon and C. F. Fox. Menlo Park, CA, W.A. Benjamin: 129-134.
	
Simpson, D. L., et al. (1975). "Pallidin.  Purification and characterization of a carbohydrate-binding protein from Polysphondylium pallidum implicated in intercellular adhesion." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 412: 109-119.
	
Shaffer, B. M. (1975). "Secretion of cyclic AMP induced by cyclic AMP in the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Nature 255: 549-552.
	
Rubin, J. and A. Robertson (1975). "The tip of the Dictyostelium discoideum pseudoplasmodium as an organizer." J. Embryol. Exp. Morphol. 33: 227-241.
	
Rothman, F. G. and E. T. Alexander (1975). "Parasexual genetic analysis of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum A3." Genetics 80: 715-731.
	
Rossomando, E. F. and L. S. Cutler (1975). "Localization of adenylate cyclase in Dictyostelium discoideum. 1. Preparation and biochemical characterization of cell fractions and isolated plasma membrane vesicles." Exp. Cell Res. 95: 67-78.
	
Rosen, S. D., et al. (1975). "Distinct lectin activities from six species of cellular slime mold." Exp. Cell Res. 95: 159-166.
	
Rosen, O. R. (1975). "Purification of fructose-1,6-diphosphatase from Polysphondylium pallidum." Meth. Enzymol. 42: 360-363.
	
Roos, W., et al. (1975). "Amplification of cyclic-AMP signals in aggregating cells of Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 53: 139-142.
	
Roos, U. P. (1975). "Mitosis in the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium violaceum." J. Cell Biol. 64: 480-491.
	
Roos, U. P. (1975). "Fine structure of an organelle associated with the nucleus and cytoplasmic microtubules in the cellular slime mould Polysphondylium violaceum." J. Cell Sci. 18: 315-326.
	
Robertson, A. and D. J. Drage (1975). "Stimulation of late interphase Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae with an external cyclic AMP signal." Biophys. J. 15: 765-775.
	
Rickenberg, H. V., et al. (1975). "Inhibition of development in Dictyostelium discoideum by sugars." J. Bacteriol. 124: 212-219.
	
Reitherman, D. W., et al. (1975). "Cell surface species-specific high affinity receptors for discoidin: Developmental regulation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 72: 3541-3545.
	
Reinhardt, D. J. (1975). "Natural variants of the cellular slime mold Acrasis rosea." J. Protozool. 22: 309-317.
	
Raman, R. (1975). Analysis of the chemotactic response during aggregation in Dictyostelium minutum. Chicago, IL, The University of Chicago.
	
Putnam jr, J. B. and L. G. Pedersen (1975). "Discovery of a 3',5'-guanosine monophosphate simulating factor in amoebae of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 411: 168-170.
	
Poff, K. L. and W. L. Butler (1975). "Spectral characterization of the photo reducible b-type cytochrome of Dictyostelium discoideum." Plant Physiol. 55: 427-429.
	
Pereira da Silva, L. H., et al. (1975). "Induction of cell differentiation by the chemotactic signal in Dictyostelium discoideum." Proceedings of the Tenth FEBS meeting 38: 269-277.
	
Park, D. J. M. and B. E. Wright (1975). "Mathematical modeling of differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Cell. Biochem. 8: 97-112.
	
Parish, R. W. (1975). "Mitochondria and peroxisomes from the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum. Isolation techniques and urate oxidase association with peroxisomes." Eur. J. Biochem. 58: 523-531.
	
Pan, P., et al. (1975). "Determination of the active portion of the folic acid molecule in cellular slime mold chemotaxis." J. Bacteriol. 122: 185-191.
	
Pan, P. (1975). Chemical messengers in the development of cellular slime molds. Developmental biology: Pattern formation, gene regulation. (ICN-UCLA Symp.). D. McMahon and C. F. Fox. Menlo Park, CA, W.A. Benjamin: 421-439.
	
Palatnik, C. M., et al. (1975). Qualitative and quantitative differences in transfer RNA between growth and development in Dictyostelium discoideum. Developmental biology: Pattern formation, gene regulation. (ICN-UCLA Symp.). D. McMahon and C. F. Fox. Menlo Park, CA, W.A. Benjamin: 508-513.
	
Palatnik, C. M. (1975). Qualitative and quantitative differences in transfer-RNA between growth and development in Dictyostelium discoideum. Stony Brook, NY, State University of New York (SUNY) at Stony Brook: 102.
	
Osborn, P. J. and J. M. Ashworth (1975). "Changes in the basic nuclear proteins of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum during growth and differentiation." Cell Differ. 4: 237-241.
	
Olive, L. S. (1975). The Mycetozoans. New York, Ac. Press.
	
O'Day, D. and K. Lewis (1975). "Diffusible mating-type factors induce macrocyst development in Dictyostelium discoideum." Nature 254: 431-432.
	
Newell, P. C. (1975). Cellular communication during aggregation of the slime mold Dictyostelium. Microbiology 75. M. Dworkin and L. Shapiro. Washington, D.C., Am. Soc. Microbiol.: 426-433.
	
Muroyama, T., et al. (1975). "The karyotype of the cellular slime molds." Chromosome Information Service no. 19: 32-33.
	
Muller, U. and H. R. Hohl (1975). "Ultrastructural evidence for the presence of two separate glycogen pools in Dictyostelium discoideum." Protoplasma 85: 199-207.
	
Mosses, D., et al. (1975). "The use of mitotic crossing-over for genetic analysis in Dictyostelium discoideum: mapping of linkage group II." J. Gen. Microbiol. 90: 247-259.
	
Morris, N. T. and A. T. Weber (1975). Sodium azide inhibition of growth and development in Dictyostelium discoideum. Abstr. Annu. Meet. Am. Soc. Microbiol.
	
McMahon, D., et al. (1975). The involvement of the plasma membrane in the development of Dictyostelium discoideum. Developmental biology: Pattern formation, gene regulation. (ICN-UCLA Symp.). D. McMahon and C. F. Fox. Menlo Park, CA, W.A. Benjamin: 60-75.
	
Mato, J. M., et al. (1975). "Signal input for a chemotactic response in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 72: 4991-4993.
	
Mato, J. M. and T. M. Konijn (1975). "Chemotaxis and binding of cyclic AMP in cellular slime molds." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 385: 173-179.
	
Mato, J. M. and T. M. Konijn (1975). "Enhanced cell aggregation in Dictyostelium discoideum by ATP activation of cyclic AMP receptors." Dev. Biol. 47: 233-235.
	
Malchow, D., et al. (1975). "A plausible role for a membrane-bound cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase in cellular slime mold chemotaxis." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 385: 421-428.
	
MacHac, M. A. and J. T. Bonner (1975). "Evidence for a sex hormone in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Bacteriol. 124: 1624-1625.
	
Loomis, W. F. (1975). Dictyostelium discoideum. A developmental system. New York, Ac. Press.
	
Loomis, W. F. (1975). Polarity and pattern in Dictyostelium. Developmental biology: Pattern formation, gene regulation. (ICN-UCLA Symp.). D. McMahon and C. F. Fox. Menlo Park, CA, W.A. Benjamin: 109-128.
	
Loomis, W. F. (1975). Stage specific isozymes of Dictyostelium discoideum. Isozymes. C. L. Markert. New York, Ac. Press: 177-189.
	
Lodish, H. F., et al. (1975). RNA and protein synthesis during differentiation of the slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum. Developmental biology: Pattern formation, gene regulation. (ICN-UCLA Symp.). D. McMahon and C. F. Fox. Menlo Park, CA, W.A. Benjamin: 366-383.
	
Lee, A., et al. (1975). "Studies on the alkaline phosphatase and 5'-nucleotidase of Dictyostelium discoideum." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 171: 407-417.
	
Laine, J., et al. (1975). "A simple method for storing cellular slime mold amoebae." Can. J. Microbiol. 21: 959-962.
	
Krichevsky, M. I. and L. L. Love (1975). "The growth and utilization of Dictyostelium discoideum as a model system for hormone or protohormone action." Meth. Enzymol. 39: 485-492.
	
Konijn, T. M. (1975). Chemotaxis in the cellular slime moulds. Primitive sensory and communication systems. The taxes and tropisms of micro-organisms and cells. M. J. Carlile. London, New York, San Francisco, Ac. Press: 101-153.
	
Klein, C. and M. Darmon (1975). "The relationship of phosphodiesterase to the developmental cycle of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 67: 440-447.
	
Klein, C. and P. Brachet (1975). "Effects of progesterone and EDTA on cAMP and phosphodiesterase in Dictyostelium discoideum." Nature 254: 432-434.
	
Klein, C. (1975). "Induction of phosphodiesterase by cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate in differentiating Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 250: 7134-7138.
	
Killick, K. A. and B. E. Wright (1975). "Trehalose synthesis during differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum. Preparation, stabilization, and assay of trehalose-6-phosphate synthetase." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 170: 634-643.
	
Killick, K. A. and B. E. Wright (1975). "Dictyostelium UDP-glucose pyrophosphorylase." Cellular Slime Mold Newsletter 7.
	
Katilus, J. and C. Ceccarini (1975). "Purification and new biological properties of the slime mold germination inhibitor." Dev. Biol. 42: 13-18.
	
Jones, T. H. D. and L. Leung (1975). Characterization of cellulase activity in spores of Dictyostelium discoideum. Fed. Proc.
	
Joab-Liwerant, I. and L. H. Pereira da Silva (1975). "Comparative mutagenic effects of ethyl methane-sulfonate, N-methyl-N'-nitro-N-nitrosoguanidine, ultraviolet radiation and caffeine on Dictyostelium discoideum." Mutation Res. 33: 135-146.
	
Jefferson, B. L. and C. L. Rutherford (1975). Trehalose metabolism during differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum. Va. J. Sci.
	
Jefferson, B. L. and C. L. Rutherford (1975). Trehalose metabolism during differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum Acrasiales. Asb. Bull.
	
Jacobson, A. and H. F. Lodish (1975). "Genetic control of development of the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum." Annu. Rev. Genet. 9: 145-185.
	
Jacobson, A., et al. (1975). Electrophoretic separation of the major species of the slime mold messenger RNA. Microbiology 75. M. Dworkin and L. Shapiro. Washington, D.C., Am. Soc. Microbiol.: 490-499.
	
Jacobson, A., et al. (1975). "The synthesis of messenger RNA in the cellular slime mold Dictyosteilum discoideum." Brookhaven Symp Biol(26): 307-319.
	
Jacobson, A. (1975). Analysis of mRNA transcription in Dictyostelium discoideum, or: Slime mold mRNA: How to find it and what to do with it once you've got it. Meth. Mol. Biol. J. A. Last. New York, M. Dekker: 161-209.
	
Huesgen, A. and G. Gerisch (1975). "Solubilized contact sites A from cell membranes of Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 56: 46-49.
	
Hess, B., et al. (1975). Spatiotemporal organization in chemical and cellular systems. Advances in chemical physics. G. Nicolis and R. Lefever. New York, John Wiley & Sons: 137-168.
	
Henderson, E. J. (1975). "The cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate receptor of Dictyostelium discoideum. Binding characteristics of aggregation competent cells and variation of binding levels during the life cycle." J. Biol. Chem. 250: 4730-4736.
	
Hashimoto, Y., et al. (1975). "Cell density dependence of the aggregation characteristics of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 19: 215-229.
	
Harasawa, I. and T. Yamada (1975). "Variation of cellular slime mold in natural environment." Bull. Tokyo Gakugei Univ., Ser. VI 27: 11-20.
	
Hamilton, I. D. and W. K. Chia (1975). "Enzyme activity changes during cyclic AMP-induced stalk cell differentiation in P4, a variant of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 91: 295-306.
	
Gross, J. D. (1975). Periodic cyclic AMP signals and cell differentiation. (News and views). Nature. 255: 522-523.
	
Griffith, R. A. (1975). Research of phosphodiesterase and adenylate cyclase activity in the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum and the effect of temperature and ATP on cAMP production. Leiden, RUL.
	
Gregg, J. H. and N. Y. Yu (1975). "Dictyostelium aggregate-less mutant plasma membranes." Exp. Cell Res. 96: 283-286.
	
Green, A. A. and P. C. Newell (1975). "Evidence for the existence of two types of cAMP binding sites in aggregating cells of Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell 6: 129-136.
	
Goldbeter, A. (1975). "Mechanism for oscillatory synthesis of cyclic AMP in Dictyostelium discoideum." Nature 253: 540-542.
	
Gingle, A. R. (1975). Critical density for relaying in Dictyostelium discoideum and its relation to phosphodiesterase secretion into the extracellular medium. Chicago, IL, The University of Chicago.
	
Gerisch, G. and U. Wick (1975). "Intracellular oscillations and release of cyclic AMP from Dictyostelium cells." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 65: 364-370.
	
Gerisch, G., et al. (1975). Cyclic-AMP reception and cell recognition in Dictyostelium discoideum. Developmental biology: Pattern formation, gene regulation. (ICN-UCLA Symp.). D. McMahon and C. F. Fox. Menlo Park, CA, W.A. Benjamin: 76-88.
	
Gerisch, G., et al. (1975). "Cell communication by periodic cyclic-AMP pulses." Phil. Trans. R. Soc. London. B. 272: 181-192.
	
Gerisch, G., et al. (1975). Genetic control of cell differentiation and aggregation in Dictyostelium: the role of cyclic-AMP pulses. Organization and expression of the eukaryotic genome. Biochemical mechanism of differentiation in prokaryotes and eukaryotes. (Proc. Tenth FEBS Meeting). G. Bernardi and F. Gross. Amsterdam, North-Holland Biomedical Press: 257-267.
	
Gerisch, G., et al. (1975). "Control of cell-contact sites by cyclic AMP pulses in differentiating Dictyostelium cells." Nature 255: 547-549.
	
Fukui, Y. and Y. Miyake (1975). "Parasexual hybridization in cellular slime mold. I. Appearance of hybrid clones at high frequency in a short period and its relation to cell fusion in Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Struct. Funct. 1: 23-31.
	
Frazier, W. A., et al. (1975). "Purification and comparison of two developmentally regulated lectins from Dictyostelium discoideum - Discoidin I and II." J. Biol. Chem. 250: 7714-7721.
	
Francis, D. (1975). Genetic regulation of cyclic nucleotide production in a cellular slime mold Polysphondylium. Adv. Cycl. Nucl. Res.
	
Francis, D. (1975). "Cyclic AMP-induced changes in protein synthesis in a cellular slime mould, Polysphondylium pallidum." Nature 258: 763-765.
	
Francis, D. (1975). "Macrocyst genetics in Polysphondylium pallidum, a cellular slime mould." J. Gen. Microbiol. 89: 310-318.
	
Firtel, R. A. and T. Pederson (1975). "Ribonucleoprotein particles containing heterogeneos nuclear RNA in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 72: 301-305.
	
Firtel, R. A. and K. Kindle (1975). "Structural organization of the genome of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum: Interspersion of repetitive and single-copy DNA sequences." Cell 5: 401-411.
	
Filosa, M. F., et al. (1975). "The developmental capacity of various stages of a macrocyst-forming strain of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium mucoroides." Dev. Biol. 46: 49-55.
	
Farnsworth, P. A. and W. F. Loomis (1975). "A gradient in the thickness of the surface sheath in pseudoplasmodia in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 46: 349-357.
	
Farnsworth, P. A. (1975). "Proportionality in the pattern of differentiation of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum and the time of its determination." J. Embryol. Exp. Morphol. 33: 869-877.
	
Farnham, C. J. M. (1975). "Cytochemical localization of adenylate cyclase and 3',5'-nucleotide phosphodiesterase in Dictyostelium." Exp. Cell Res. 91: 36-46.
	
Every, D. and J. M. Ashworth (1975). "Rates of degradation and synthesis of glycosidases de novo during growth and differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. J. 148: 169-177.
	
Every, D. and J. M. Ashworth (1975). "Rates of accumulation of glycosidase activities during growth and differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. J. 148: 161-167.
	
Erdos, G. W., et al. (1975). "Sexuality in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium giganteum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 72: 970-973.
	
Ennis, H. L. and M. Sussman (1975). "Mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum defective in spore germination." J. Bacteriol. 124: 62-64.
	
Eckert, B. S. and R. H. Warren (1975). Motility of amoebae of the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Dimond, R. L. and W. F. Loomis (1975). The role of UDPG pyrophosphorylase during development in Dictyostelium discoideum. Developmental biology: Pattern formation, gene regulation. (ICN-UCLA Symp.). D. McMahon and C. F. Fox. Menlo Park, CA, W.A. Benjamin: 533-538.
	
Dimond, R. L. (1975). Mutational analysis of stage specific enzymes in Dictyostelium discoideum. La Jolla, CA, University of California, San Diego (UCSD): 154.
	
Deering, R. A. and D. S. Jensen (1975). "Endonuclease from Dictyostelium discoideum that attacks ultraviolet-irradiated deoxyribonucleic acid." J. Bacteriol. 121: 1211-1213.
	
Deering, R. A. (1975). Dictyostelium discoideum: a valuable eukaryotic system for repair studies. Molecular mechanisms for repair of DNA. P. C. Hanawalt and R. B. Setlow. New York, Plenum Press: 581-584.
	
Darmon, M., et al. (1975). "Chemotactic signals induce cell differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 72: 3163-3166.
	
D'Addone Hanish, M. (1975). "A possible cause of termination of cell growth in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 45: 340-348.
	
Cutler, L. S. and E. F. Rossomando (1975). "Localization of adenylate cyclase in Dictyostelium discoideum. 2. Cytochemical studies in whole cells and isolated plasma membrane vesicles." Exp. Cell Res. 95: 79-87.
	
Cutler, L. S. (1975). "Comments on the validity of the use of lead nitrate for the cytochemical study of adenylate cyclase." J. Histochem. Cytochem. 23: 786-787.
	
Curry, A. and D. E. Woolley (1975). The detection of actin-like proteins in some protozoa using heavy meromyosin. J. Protozool.
	
Coukell, M. B. (1975). "Parasexual genetic analysis of aggregation-deficient mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum." Mol. Gen. Genet. 142: 119-135.
	
Cotter, D. A. and R. P. George (1975). "Germination and mitochondrial damage in spores of Dictyostelium discoideum following supraoptimal heating." Arch. Microbiol. 103: 163-168.
	
Cotter, D. A. (1975). Spores of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. Spores. P. Gerhardt, R. N. Costilow and H. L. Sadoff. Washington, DC, A.S.M.: 61-72.
	
Cohen, M. H., et al. (1975). "Iontophoresis of cyclic AMP." Biophys. J. 15: 753-763.
	
Cohen, A. and M. Sussman (1975). "Guanosine metabolism and regulation of fruiting body construction in Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 72: 4479-44482.
	
Cockburn, A. and R. A. Firtel (1975). Mapping of the genome of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum with restriction endo nucleases. J. Cell Biol.
	
Clarke, M., et al. (1975). "Visualization of actin fibers associated with the cell membrane in amoebae of Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 72: 1758-1762.
	
Chia, W. C. (1975). "Induction of stalk cell differentiation by cyclic-AMP in a susceptible variant of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 44: 239-252.
	
Charlesworth, M. C. and R. W. Parish (1975). "The isolation of nuclei and basic nucleoproteins from the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Eur. J. Biochem. 54: 307-316.
	
Chang, C. M., et al. (1975). "Cell surface location of discoidin, a developmentally regulated carbohydrate-binding protein from Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Cell Res. 95: 136-142.
	
Bryant, P. E. (1975). Studies of RNA synthesis in irradiated resistant and sensitive strains of the slime-mould Dictyostelium discoideum. Proc. British Inst. Radiol.
	
Brenner, M., et al. (1975). "Techniques for rapid biochemical screening of large number of cell clones." Exp. Cell Res. 90: 249-252.
	
Brackenbury, R. and M. Sussman (1975). "Mutant of Dictyostelium discoideum defective in cell contact regulation of enzyme expression." Cell 4: 347-351.
	
Brachet, P. and C. Klein (1975). "Inhibition of growth and cellular aggregation of Dictyostelium discoideum by steroid compounds." Exp. Cell Res. 93: 159-165.
	
Bloch, S. and H. Cedar (1975). In vitro transcription from chromatin of slime molds. Isr. J. Med. Sci.
	
Benson, M. R. (1975). Distribution of dictyostelid cellular slime molds in Southern California. Los Angeles, CA, California State Univ.
	
Ashworth, J. M. and J. Dee (1975). "The biology of slime moulds." Institute of Biology's Studies in Biology. 56: pp.67.
	
Alexander, S. S. and M. Sussman (1975). "Trehalose-6-phosphate synthetase activity in extracts of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 46: 211-215.
	
Alexander, S., et al. (1975). "Tryptic destruction of aggregative competence in Dictyostelium discoideum and subsequent recovery." Nature 254: 698-699.
	
Yarger, J., et al. (1974). "Observations on the growth of Dictyostelium discoideum in axenic medium: Evidence for an extracellular growth inhibitor synthesized by stationary phase cells." J. Cell Sci. 14: 681-690.
	
Yanagisawa, K. O., et al. (1974). "Cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase in some mutants of Dictyostelium purpureum." Agr. Biol. Chem. 38: 1845-1849.
	
Yanagisawa, K. O., et al. (1974). "Effect of glucose and adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate on the early development of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biochem. 75: 1321-1325.
	
Yamada, H., et al. (1974). "Polysaccharides of the cellular slime mold. II. Change of intra- and extracellular polysaccharides during growth phase of Dictyostelium discoideum NC-4." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 362: 167-174.
	
Yamada, H., et al. (1974). "Polysaccharides of the cellular slime mold. I. Extracellular polysaccharides in growth phase of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 343: 371-381.
	
Williams, K. L., et al. (1974). "Parasexual genetics in Dictyostelium discoideum: Mitotic analysis of acriflavin resistance and growth in axenic medium." J. Gen. Microbiol. 84: 59-69.
	
Williams, K. L., et al. (1974). "Genetics of growth in axenic medium of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Nature 247: 142-143.
	
Wilhelms, O.-H., et al. (1974). "Glycosphingolipids and glycoproteins in the wild-type and in a non-aggregating mutant of Dictyostelium discoideum." Eur. J. Biochem. 48: 89-101.
	
Warren, A. J. (1974). A genetic study of aggregation in the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium violaceum. Princeton, NJ, Princeton University: 60.
	
Warren, A. and E. Cox (1974). Complementation analysis of aggregation mutants in the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium violaceum. Genetics.
	
Verma, I. M., et al. (1974). "Synthesis of DNA complementary to cellular slime mold messenger RNA by reverse transcriptase." Biochemistry 13: 3917-3922.
	
Tuchman, J., et al. (1974). "Preferential synthesis of actin during early development of the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 40: 116-128.
	
Tanaka, Y., et al. (1974). "True spore germination inhibitor of a cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Agr. Biol. Chem. 38: 689-690.
	
Sussman, R. R. (1974). "Bioassay for the isolation of Dictyostelium discoideum mutants deficient in extracellular accumulation of cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate." J. Bacteriol. 118: 312-313.
	
Sussman, M. and E. F. Rossomando (1974). Cellular slime molds. Handbook of Genetics. R. C. King. New York, Plenum Press: 427.
	
Spudich, J. A. and M. Clarke (1974). "The contractile proteins of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Supramol. Struct. 2: 150-162.
	
Spudich, J. (1974). "Biochemical and structural studies of actomyosin-like proteins from non-muscle cells. 2. Purification, properties and membrane association of actin from amoebae of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 249: 6013-6020.
	
Smith, J. E. and D. R. Berry (1974). A cellular slime mould: Dictyostelium discoideum. An introduction to biochemistry of fungal development. J. E. Smith and D. R. Berry. London, New York, Ac. Press: 31-62.
	
Smart, J. E. and R. O. Hynes (1974). "Developmentally regulated cell surface alterations in Dictyostelium discoideum." Nature 251: 319-321.
	
Sinha, U. (1974). "Metabolism of Dictyostelium discoideum during early stages of differentiation in phophate buffers." Indian J. Exp. Biol. 12: 60-62.
	
Singh, R. (1974). "Effect of exogenous 3',5'-cyclic adenosine monophosphate on the cell surface properties of the cellular slime mould, Dictyostelium discoideum." Indian. J. Exp. Biol. 12: 435-437.
	
Simpson, et al. (1974). "Discoidin, a developmentally regulated carbohydrate binding protein from Dictyostelium discoideum. Purification and characterization." Biochemistry 13: 3487-3493.
	
Rutherford, C. L., et al. (1974). "Precursor-product relationships between nucleotides and RNA during differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 84: 173-187.
	
Rossomando, E. F., et al. (1974). "Scanning electron microscopic observations on cell surface changes during aggregation of Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Cell Res. 85: 73-78.
	
Rossomando, E. F. (1974). Preparation of membrane bound adenyl cyclase from Dictyostelium discoideum using amphotericin B. Fed. Proc.
	
Rosness, P. A. and B. E. Wright (1974). "In vivo changes of cellulose, trehalose and glycogen during differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 164: 60-72.
	
Rosness, P. A. (1974). Polysaccharide metabolism during cellular development in Dictyostelium discoideum. Boston, MA, Boston University Graduate School: 200.
	
Rosen, S. D., et al. (1974). "Carbohydrate-binding protein from Polysphondylium pallidum implicated in intercellular adhesion." Nature 252: 128 and 149-151.
	
Rogge, H. and H. J. Risse (1974). "Glycosyltransferases in membraneous and nuclear fractions of Dictyostelium." Hoppe-Seyler's Z. Physiol. Chemie 355: 1244-1245.
	
Rogge, H. and H.-J. Risse (1974). "A procedure for the isolation of Dictyostelium nuclei." Hoppe-Seyler's Z. Physiol. Chemie 355: 1467-1470.
	
Robertson, A. and J. Grutsch (1974). "The role of cyclic AMP in slime mold development." Life Sci. 15: 1031-1043.
	
Robertson, A. and M. H. Cohen (1974). "Quantitative analysis of the development of cellular slime molds, II." Lectures on Mathematics in the Life Sciences. 6: 45-62.
	
Robertson, A. (1974). Information handling at the cellular level - Intercellular communication in slime mould development. The biology of brains. B. W. Broughton. New York, Halsted Press: 1-10.
	
Risse, H. J., et al. (1974). Glycosyltransferases linked to subcellular membranes of the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. Biomembranes. L. Packer. New York, Ac. Press: 371-380.
	
Poff, K. L., et al. (1974). "Isolation and purification of the photoreceptor pigment associated with phototaxis in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 249: 2164-2167.
	
Poff, K. L. and W. L. Butler (1974). "Absorbance changes induced by blue light in Phycomyces blakesleeanus and Dictyostelium discoideum." Nature 248: 799-801.
	
Poff, K. L. and W. L. Butler (1974). "Spectral characteristics of the photoreceptor pigment of phototaxis in Dictyostelium discoideum." Photochem. Photobiol. 20: 241-244.
	
Parish, R. W. and C. Pelli (1974). "Alkaline phosphatase of Dictyostelium discoideum: cell surface location and colchicine effect on internalization during phagocytosis." FEBS Lett. 48: 293-296.
	
Pan, P., et al. (1974). "Immunofluorescence evidence for the distribution of cyclic AMP in cells and cell masses of the cellular slime molds." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 71: 1623-1625.
	
Olive, L. S. and C. Stoianovitch (1974). "A cellular slime mold with flagellate cells." Mycologia 66: 685-690.
	
O'Day, D. (1974). "Intracellular and extracellular enzyme patterns during microcyst germination in the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium pallidum." Dev. Biol. 36: 400-410.
	
Nanjundiah, V. (1974). "A differential chemotactic response of slime mould amoebae to regions of the early amphibian embryo." Exp. Cell Res. 86: 408-411.
	
Moens, P. B. and T. M. Konijn (1974). "Cyclic AMP as a cell surface activating agent in Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 45: 44-46.
	
McMahon, D. (1974). "Chemical messengers in development: a hypothesis." Science 185: 1012-1021.
	
McDonald, M. C. (1974). Biosynthesis of nucleotides and amino acids during the vegetative stage of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. Birmingham, AL, University of Alabama at Birmingham: 75.
	
Malchow, D. and G. Gerisch (1974). "Short-term binding and hydrolysis of cyclic 3':5'-adenosine monophosphate by aggregating Dictyostelium cells." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 71: 2423-2427.
	
Maeda, Y. and M. Maeda (1974). "Heterogeneity of the cell population of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum before aggregation, and its relation to the subsequent locations of the cells." Exp. Cell Res. 84: 88-94.
	
MacInnes and D. Francis (1974). "Meiosis in Dictyostelium mucoroides." Nature 251: 321-324.
	
Long, B. H. and E. L. Coe (1974). "Changes in neutral lipid constituents during differentiation of the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 249: 521-529.
	
Lodish, H. F., et al. (1974). "Synthesis of mRNA and chromosome structure in the cellular slime mold." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 71: 5103-5108.
	
Lodish, H., et al. (1974). "Transcription and structure of the genome of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." CSH Symp. Quant. Biol. 38: 899-914.
	
Lin, S., et al. (1974). "Biochemical studies on the mode of action of cytochalasin B and studies on its binding to cells." J. Biol. Chem. 249: 2268-2274.
	
Langridge III, W. H. R. (1974). Regulation of glutamate-dehydrogenase activity during morphogenesis in the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum. Amherst, MA, University of Massachusetts, Amherst, Hampshire, Mount Holyoke and Smith Colleges: 153.
	
Konijn, T. M. (1974). Cyclisch AMP als schakel en hormoon. Ontwikkelingen in de cel biologie. P. van Duin. Wageningen, Pudoc: 199-219.
	
Konijn, T. M. (1974). "The chemotactic effect of cyclic AMP and its analogues in the Acrasiae." Antibiotics and Chemotherapy 19: 96-110.
	
Klein, C. (1974). "Presence of magic spot in Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 38: 149-152.
	
Klaus, M. and R. P. George (1974). "Microdissection of the developmental stages of the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum, using a ruby laser." Dev. Biol. 39: 183-188.
	
Killick, K. A. and B. E. Wright (1974). "Regulation of enzyme activity during differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Annu. Rev. Microbiol. 28: 139-166.
	
Kessin, R. H., et al. (1974). "Linkage analysis in Dictyostelium discoideum using temperature-sensitive growth mutants selected with bromodeoxyuridine." J. Bacteriol. 119: 776-783.
	
Kessin, R. H. and P. C. Newell (1974). "Isolation of germination mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Bacteriol. 117: 379-381.
	
Katz, E. R. and V. Kao (1974). "Evidence for mitotic recombination in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 71: 4025-4026.
	
Katz, E. R. and L. Y. W. Bourgignon (1974). "The cell cycle and its relationship to aggregation in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 36: 82-87.
	
Kanda, F., et al. (1974). "Molecular-weight determinations and stoichiometric measurements of 40-S and 60-S ribosomal proteins of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Eur. J. Biochem. 44: 469-479.
	
Kananishi, N. and M. Watanabe (1974). Radiation resistance in the cellular slime molds IV. Effects of some radiomimetic substances. J. Radiat. Res.
	
Jones, M. E. (1974). Development in Polysphondylium. Chicago, IL, The University of Chicago.
	
Jacobson, A., et al. (1974). "Synthesis of messenger and ribosomal RNA precursors in isolated nuclei of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Mol. Biol. 82: 213-230.
	
Jacobson, A., et al. (1974). "The synthesis of messenger RNA in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Brookhaven Symposia in Biology 26: 307-319.
	
Jacobson, A., et al. (1974). "Transcription of polydeoxy thymidylate sequences in the genome of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 71: 1607-1611.
	
Ishida, S., et al. (1974). "An anucleolate mutant of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 81: 491-499.
	
Ishida, S. (1974). "A cell-contact temperature-sensitive mutant of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium mucoroides." Devel. Growth Differ. 16: 237-246.
	
Horgen, I. A., et al. (1974). "Purification and properties of acid phosphatase I from the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium pallidum." Can. J. Biochem. 52: 126-136.
	
Hames, B. D. and J. M. Ashworth (1974). "The control of saccharide synthesis during development of myxamoebae of Dictyostelium discoideum containing differing amounts of glycogen." Biochem. J. 142: 317-325.
	
Hames, B. D. and J. M. Ashworth (1974). "The metabolism of macromolecules during the differentiation of myxamoebae of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum containing different amounts of glycogen." Biochem. J. 142: 301-315.
	
Hagiwara, H. (1974). "The Acrasiales in Japan. III. On two species of Dictyosteliaceae from the Yaeyama Islands, Okinawa." Mem. Natl. Sci. Mus. Tokyo 7: 81-84.
	
Guialis, A. (1974). Some aspects of DNA repair in ultraviolet light-irradiated Dictyostelium discoideum. University Park, PA, The Pennsylvania State University (Penn State): 160.
	
Green, A. and P. Newell (1974). "The isolation and subfractionation of plasma membrane from the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. J. 140: 313-322.
	
Gingold, E. B. and J. M. Ashworth (1974). "Evidence for mitotic crossing-over during the parasexual cycle of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 84: 70-78.
	
Gingold, E. B. (1974). "Stability of diploid clones of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Heredity (Edinb) 33: 419-423.
	
Gillies, N. E., et al. (1974). THe effect of bacterial strain on the sensitivity of Dictyostelium discoideum to gamma-rays. Radiat. Res.
	
Gillette, M. U., et al. (1974). "The localization and fate of concanavalin A in amoebae of the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Exp. Zool. 190: 243-248.
	
Gezelius, K. (1974). "Inorganic polyphosphates and enzymes of polyphosphate metabolism in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Arch. Microbiol. 98: 311-329.
	
Gerisch, G., et al. (1974). Cell communication and cyclic-AMP regulation during aggregation of the slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum. Biochemistry of sensory functions. L. Jaenicke. New York, Springer-Verlag: 279-298.
	
Gerisch, G. and B. Hess (1974). "Cyclic-AMP-controlled oscillations in suspended Dictyostelium cells: Their relation to morphogenetic cell interactions." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 71: 2118-2122.
	
Gerisch, G., et al. (1974). Receptors for intercellular signals in aggregating cells of the slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum. Biology and chemistry of eucaryotic cell surfaces (Miami Winter Symposia). E. Y. C. Lee and E. E. Smith. New York, Ac. Press: 49-66.
	
Gerisch, G., et al. (1974). Membrane sites and cell aggregation in the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. Arch. Biol.
	
Gerisch, G. (1974). Process for obtaining a phosphodiesterase from Dictyostelium discoideum. USA/Germany. 269960: 2 pages/3 claims.
	
Garrod, D. R. (1974). "Cellular recognition and specific cell adhesion in cellular slime mould development." Arch. Biol. (Brux.) 85: 7-31.
	
Garrod, D. R. (1974). "The cellular basis of movement of the migrating grex of the slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum: chemotactic and reaggregation behaviour of grex cells." J. Embryol. Exp. Morphol. 32: 57-68.
	
Fukui, Y. (1974). "Cell fusion as a prototype of sexual reproduction: para-sexual cycle in the cellular slime molds." Symp. Cell Biol. 26: 47-57.
	
Free, S. J. and W. F. Loomis (1974). "Isolation of mutations in Dictyostelium discoideum affecting alpha-mannosidase." Biochimie 56: 1525-1528.
	
Firtel, R., et al. (1974). "Gene activity during development of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Genetics 78: 355-372.
	
Felenbok, B., et al. (1974). "Effect of the thymidine analogue 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine on Dictyostelium discoideum development." Cell Differ. 3: 55-62.
	
Farnsworth, P. A. and W. F. Loomis (1974). "A barrier to diffusion in pseudoplasmodia of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 41: 77-83.
	
Farnsworth, P. A. (1974). "Experimentally induced aberrations in the pattern of differentiation in the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Embryol. Exp. Morphol. 31: 435-451.
	
Every, D. and J. M. Ashworth (1974). "Immunological evidence to show that the N-acetylglucosaminidase and N-acetylgalactosaminidase activities of Dictyostelium discoideum reside in the same protein molecule." Biochem. J. 143: 785-787.
	
Ellingson, J. S. (1974). "Changes in the phospholipid composition in the differentiating cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 337: 60-67.
	
Durston, A. J. (1974). "Pacemaker mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 38: 308-319.
	
Durston, A. J. (1974). "Pacemaker activity during aggregation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 37: 225-235.
	
Dunnebacke, T. H. and F. L. Schuster (1974). "An infectious agent associated with amebas of the genus Naegleria." J. Protozool. 21: 327-329.
	
Dimond, R. L. and W. F. Loomis (1974). "Vegetative isozyme of N-acetylglucosaminidase in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 249: 5628-5632.
	
Cleveland Jr, R. F. (1974). Effects of gamma radiation on morphogenesis and developmental enzymes during cellular differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum. University Park, PA, The Pennsylvania State University (Penn State): 127.
	
Clarke, M. and J. Spudich (1974). "Biochemical and structural studies of actomyosin-like proteins from non-muscle cells. Isolation and characterization of myosin from amoebae of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Mol. Biol. 86: 209-222.
	
Clark, M. A. (1974). "Syngenic divisions of the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium violaceum." J. Protozool. 21: 755-757.
	
Chia, W. K. (1974). A study of stalk cell differentiation in the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum. Princeton, NJ, Princeton University: 113.
	
Chassy, B. M. and E. V. Porter (1974). "Purification and properties of cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase from Dictyostelium discoideum." Meth. Enzymol. 38: 244.
	
Brody, T. and K. L. Williams (1974). "Cytological analysis of the parasexual cycle in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 82: 371-383.
	
Brackenbury, R. W., et al. (1974). "A choice of morphogenetic pathways in Dictyostelium discoideum induced by the adenosine analog formycin B." J. Mol. Biol. 90: 529-539.
	
Bonner, J. T. (1974). Differentiation in social amoebae. Cellular and Organismal Biology - Readings from Scientific American. D. Kennedy. San Francisco, Freeman: 64-72.
	
Bazin, M. J., et al. (1974). The integration of theory and experiment in the study of predator-prey dynamics. Ecological stability. M. B. Usher and M. H. Williamson. London, Chapman and Hall: 159-164.
	
Barrand, P., et al. (1974). "Fungicides effective against the myxomycete Dictyostelium discoideum." Bull. Soc. Fr. Mycol. Med. 3: 29-32.
	
Ashworth, J. (1974). The development of the cellular slime moulds. Biochemistry and Cell Differentiation. J. Paul. Baltimore, Univ. Park Press: 7-36.
	
Anderson, J. J. (1974). "Dictyostelium discoideum: a new method for cloning in liquid medium." J. Bacteriol. 173: 1363-1364.
	
Alcantara, F. and M. Monk (1974). "Signal propagation during aggregation in the slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 85: 321-334.
	
Yamada, T., et al. (1973). "Genetic analysis of developmental stages of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium purpureum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 70: 2003-2005.
	
Wright, B. E., et al. (1973). "Glycogen metabolism during differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Ann. NY Acad. Sci. 210: 51-63.
	
Wright, B. E. (1973). Critical variables in differentiation. Englewood Cliffs, NJ, Prentice-Hall.
	
Weinstein, B. I. and S. B. Koritz (1973). "A protein kinase assayable with intact cells of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 34: 159-162.
	
Weeks, G. (1973). "Agglutination of growing and differentiating cells of Dictyostelium discoideum by concanavalin A." Exp. Cell Res. 76: 467-470.
	
Tuchman, J. (1973). The developmental role of membrane in the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum. Pasadena, CA, California Institute of Technology (Caltech): 159.
	
Tanaka, Y., et al. (1973). Role of cell surface membrane in ontogeny. Jap. J. Genet.
	
Sutherland, J. B. (1973). Distribution of cellular slime molds in Wisconsin prairie soils. Madison, WI, Univ. Wisconsin.
	
Sussman, M. (1973). Developmental biology. Its cellular and molecular foundations. Englewood Cliffs, NJ, Prentice-Hall.
	
Stuchell, R. N., et al. (1973). "Effects of ethidium bromide on various segments of the respiratory chain in the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum." FEBS Lett. 37: 23-26.
	
Soll, D. R. and M. Sussman (1973). "Transcription in isolated nuclei of the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 319: 312-322.
	
Sakai, Y. (1973). "Cell type conversion in isolated prestalk and prespore fragments of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Devel. Growth Differ. 15: 11-19.
	
Rossomando, E. R. and M. Sussman (1973). 3'-Adenylate dependent adenylate cyclase and 3',5'-adenylate dependent adenosine triphosphate pyrophosphate in Dictyostelium discoideum. Fed. Proc.
	
Rossomando, E. F. and M. Sussman (1973). "A 5'-adenosine monophosphate-dependent adenylate cyclase and an adenosine 3':5'-cyclic monophosphate-dependent adenosine triphosphate pyrophosphohydrolase in Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 70: 1254-1257.
	
Rosen, S. D., et al. (1973). "Developmentally regulated, carbohydrate-binding protein in Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 70: 2554-2557.
	
Riedel, V., et al. (1973). "Defective cyclic adenosine-3,5'-phosphate-phosphodiesterase regulation in morphogenetic mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Mol. Biol. 74: 573-585.
	
Raper, K. B. (1973). Acrasiomycetes. The Fungi. G. C. Ainsworth, F. K. Sparrow and A. C. Sussman. New York, Ac. Press: 9-36.
	
Pong, S. S. and W. F. Loomis (1973). "Replacement of an anabolic threonine deaminidase by a catabolic threonine deaminase during development of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 248: 4867-4873.
	
Pong, S. S. and W. F. Loomis (1973). Isolation of multiple RNA polymerases from Dictyostelium discoideum. Molecular techniques and approaches in developmental biology. M. Chrispeels. New York, Wiley: 93-115.
	
Pong, S. S. and W. F. Loomis (1973). "Multiple nuclear ribonucleic acid polymerases during development of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 248: 3933-3939.
	
Pong, S. S. (1973). Regulation of genetic activity during development of Dictyostelium discoideum. La Jolla, CA, University of California, San Diego (UCSD): 172.
	
Poff, K. L. and W. F. Loomis (1973). "Control of phototactic migration in Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Cell Res. 82: 236-240.
	
Poff, K. L., et al. (1973). "Light-induced absorbance changes associated with phototaxis in Dictyostelium." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 70: 813-816.
	
Park, D. J. M. and B. E. Wright (1973). "Metasim, a general purpose metabolic simulator for studying cellular transformations." Computer Programs in Biomedicine 3: 10-26.
	
Osborn, P. J. and J. M. Ashworth (1973). Is the ribosomal RNA synthesized during the developmental phase of the life cycle of Dictyostelium discoideum the same as that synthesized during the growth phase. J. Gen. Microbiol.
	
Ochiai, H., et al. (1973). "The number and size of ribosomal proteins in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biochem. 73: 163-167.
	
Obata, Y., et al. (1973). "Isolation of a spore germination inhibitor from a cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Agr. Biol. Chem. 37: 1989-1990.
	
O'Day, D. H. and L. J. Riley (1973). "Acid phosphatase activity and microcyst differentiation in the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium pallidum." Exp. Cell Res. 80: 245-249.
	
O'Day, D. H. and D. W. Francis (1973). "Patterns of alkaline phosphatase activity during alternative developmental pathways in the cellular slime mold, Polysphondylium pallidum." Can. J. Zool. 51: 301-310.
	
O'Day, D. H. (1973). "Intracellular localization and extrcellular release of certain lysosomal enzyme activities from amoebae of the cellular slime mould Polysphondylium pallidum." Cytobios 7: 223-232.
	
O'Day, D. H. (1973). "Alpha-Mannosidase and microcyst differentiation in the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium pallidum." J. Bacteriol. 113: 192-197.
	
O'Day, D. (1973). "Intracellular and extracellular acetylglucosaminidase activity during microcyst formation in Polysphondylium pallidum." Exp. Cell Res. 79: 186-190.
	
Nickerson, A. W. and K. B. Raper (1973). "Macrocysts in the life cycle of the Dictyosteliaceae. I. Formation of the macrocysts." Am. J. Bot. 60: 190-197.
	
Nickerson, A. W. and K. B. Raper (1973). "Macrocysts in the life cycle of the Dictyosteliaceae. II. Germination of the macrocysts." Am. J. Bot. 60: 247-254.
	
Newell, P. C. (1973). Control of development in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. Biochem. Soc. Trans.
	
Nesom, M. G. (1973). Life cycle and ultrastructure of the cellular slime mold, Copromyxa arborescens. Chapel Hill, NC, The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill: 138.
	
Nanjundiah, V. (1973). "Chemotaxis, signal relaying and aggregation morphology." J. Theor. Biol. 42: 63-105.
	
Muller, U. and H. R. Hohl (1973). "Pattern formation in Dictyostelium discoideum: Temporal and spatial distribution of prespore vacuoles." Differentiation 1: 267-276.
	
Muller, E. (1973). "Zyklo-AMP als Signalubertrager in biologischen Systemen. Teil 1. Zyklo-AMP bei Tieren und Mikroorganismen." Biol. Rundschau 11: 129-139.
	
McMahon, D. (1973). "A cell-contact model for cellular position determination in development." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 70: 2396-2400.
	
Malkinson, A. M., et al. (1973). "Adenosine 3':5'-cyclic monophosphate-binding protein from the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. J. 133: 601-603.
	
Malkinson, A. M. and J. M. Ashworth (1973). "Adenosine 3':5'-cyclic monophosphate concentrations and phosphodiesterase activities during axenic growth and differentiation of cells of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. J. 134: 311-319.
	
Malchow, D. and G. Gerisch (1973). "Recognition of extracellular cyclic AMP by aggregating cells of the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Hoppe-Seyler's Z. Physiol. Chemie 354: 1222-1223.
	
Malchow, D. and G. Gerisch (1973). "Cyclic AMP binding to living cells of Dictyostelium discoideum in presence of excess cyclic GMP." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 55: 200-204.
	
Malchow, D., et al. (1973). "Correlation of substrate specificity of cAMP-phosphodiesterase in Dictyostelium discoideum with chemotactic activity of cAMP-analogues." FEBS Lett. 34: 5-9.
	
Maeda, Y., et al. (1973). "Fractionation of the differentiated types of cells constituting the pseudoplasmodia of the cellular sime molds." Bot. Mag. Tokyo 86: 5-12.
	
Maeda, Y. and M. Maeda (1973). "The calcium content of the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum, during development and differentiation." Exp. Cell Res. 82: 125-130.
	
Love, L. L., et al. (1973). "Growth of Dictyostelium discoideum in the presence of antibiotics." Antimicrob. Agents Chemother. 3: 310-313.
	
Lonski, J. (1973). Evidence for the regulation of development by ammonia for induction of encystment by methionine starvation and for the presence of a new chemotactic substance in the cellular slime molds. Princeton, NJ, Princeton Univ.: 77.
	
Long, B. H. and E. L. Coe (1973). "Characterization of ubiquinone from vegetative amoebae and mature sorocarps of the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum." Compar. Biochem. Physiol. 45B: 933-943.
	
Long, B. H. (1973). Qualitative and quantitative changes in lipids with differentiation in the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum. Evanston, IL, Northwestern University: 201.
	
Leach, C. K., et al. (1973). "Cell sorting out during the differentiation of mixtures of metabolically distinct populations of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Embryol. Exp. Morphol. 29: 647-661.
	
Konijn, T. M. and B. Jastorff (1973). "The chemotactic effect of 5'-amido analogues of adenosine cyclic 3',5'-monophosphate in the cellular slime moulds." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 304: 774-780.
	
Konijn, T. M. (1973). Chemotaxis and aggregation in slime molds. Behaviour of micro-organisms. A. Perez-Miravete. London, Plenum Press: 48-61.
	
Konijn, T. M. (1973). "The chemotactic effect of cyclic nucleotides with substitutions in the base ring." FEBS Lett. 34: 263-266.
	
Khoury, A. T. and R. A. Deering (1973). "The sedimentation of DNA of Dictyostelium discoideum lysed on alkaline sucrose gradients: role of single-strand breaks in gamma ray lethality of sensitive and resistant strains." J. Mol. Biol. 79: 267-284.
	
Khoury, A. T. (1973). Relation of the rejoining of gamma-ray-induced DNA-strand breaks to cell lethality in Dictyostelium discoideum. University Park, PA, The Pennsylvania State University (Penn State): 136.
	
Kessin, R. H. (1973). "RNA metabolism during vegetative growth and morphogenesis of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 31: 242-251.
	
Kananishi, N. and M. Watanabe (1973). Radiation resistance in the cellular slime mold. 3. Assay of caffeine sensitive recovery of gamma irradiation damage. J. Radiat. Res.
	
Jacobson, A. and H. F. Lodish (1973). "A simple and inexpensive procedure for preparative polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of RNA." Anal. Biochem. 54: 513-517.
	
Hulser, D. F. and D. J. Webb (1973). "The use of the tip potential of glass microelectrodes in the determination of low cell membrane potentials." Biophysik 10: 273-280.
	
Horgen, P. A. and D. H. O'Day (1973). "Basic nucleoproteins of the cellular slime mould Polysphondylium pallidum." Cytobios 8: 119-123.
	
Hohl, H. R. and J. Jehli (1973). "The presence of cellulose microfibrils in the proteinaceous slime track of Dictyostelium discoideum." Arch. Mikrobiol. 92: 179-187.
	
Hammond, J. R. M. (1973). "A membrane component of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum rapidly labeled with 32P." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 291: 371-387.
	
Hagiwara, H. (1973). "[Plant or animal? Celluar slime molds, on its distribution.]." Natural Science and Museums 40: 176-180.
	
Hagiwara, H. (1973). "The Acrasiales in Japan. II." Reports Tottori Mycol. Inst. 10: 591-595.
	
Hagiwara, H. (1973). "Enumeration of the Dictyosteliaceae. (Mycological reports from New Guinea and the Solomon Islands, no. 17)." Bull. Natl. Sci. Mus. Tokyo 16: 493-496, pl. 491.
	
Gustafson, G. L. and B. E. Wright (1973). Accumulation of UDP glucose pyrophosphorylase during differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum. Fed. Proc.
	
Gustafson, G. L. and B. E. Wright (1973). "UDP-glucose pyrophosphorylase synthesis in myxamoebae of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 50: 438-442.
	
Gustafson, G., et al. (1973). "Analysis of UDPG-pyrophosphorylase synthesis during differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 248: 5188-5196.
	
Gregg, J. H. and M. G. Nesom (1973). "Response of Dictyostelium plasma membranes to adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 70: 1630-1633.
	
Gregg, J. H. and W. S. Badman (1973). Transitions in differentiation by the cellular slime molds. Developmental Regulation. J. Stuart. New York, Ac. Press: 85-106.
	
Githens III, S. and M. L. Karnovsky (1973). "Phagocytosis by the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium pallidum during growth and development." J. Cell Biol. 58: 536-548.
	
Githens III, S. and M. L. Karnovsky (1973). "Biochemical changes during growth and encystment of the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium pallidum." J. Cell Biol. 58: 522-535.
	
Gillette, M. U. and M. F. Filosa (1973). "Effect of concanavalin A on cellular slime mold development: Premature appearance of membrane-bound cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 53: 1159-1166.
	
Gezelius, K., et al. (1973). "Etude des polyphosphates pendant le developpement multicellulaire de Dictyostelium discoideum." C.R. Acad. Sc. Paris, Serie D 276: 117-119.
	
Gerisch, G. and B. Hess (1973). Cyclic AMP-controlled oscillations in suspended Dictyostelium cells: their relation to morphogenetic cell interactions. Hoppe-Seyler's Z. Physiol. Chemie.
	
Gerisch, G. (1973). Responses of amoebae to IgG and univalent antibody fragments. 'Non-specific' factors influencing host resistance: a reexamination. W. Braun and J. Ungar. Basel, Switzerland, S. Karger: 33-34.
	
Garrod, D. R. and A. M. Malkinson (1973). "Cyclic AMP, pattern formation and movement in the slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Cell Res. 81: 492-495.
	
Garrod, D. R. and J. M. Ashworth (1973). Development of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum. Microbiological Differentiation (23rd Symp. Soc. Gen. Microbiol.). J. M. Ashworth and J. E. Smith. Cambridge, UK, Cambridge Univ. Press. 23: 407-435.
	
Franke, J. and M. Sussman (1973). "Accumulation of UDPG-pyrophosphorylase in Dictyostelium discoideum via preferential synthesis." J. Mol. Biol. 81: 173-185.
	
Firtel, R. and H. Lodish (1973). "A small nuclear precursor of messenger RNA in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Mol. Biol. 79: 295-314.
	
Firtel, R., et al. (1973). "Actinomycin D and the regulation of enzyme biosynthesis during development of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Mol. Biol. 79: 315-327.
	
Felenbok, B., et al. (1973). "Action de la 5-bromo 2'-deoxy uridine sur le developpement de Dictyostelium discoideum." C.R. Acad. Sc. Paris, Serie D 276: 2903-2905.
	
Farrell, C. A. and F. J. De Toma (1973). "Increased capacity for RNA synthesis in Dictyostelium discoideum nuclei induced by exposure to cyclic AMP or 5'-AMP." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 54: 1504-1510.
	
Farnsworth, P. A. (1973). "Morphogenesis in the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum; the formation and regulation of aggregate tips and the specification of developmental axes." J. Embryol. Exp. Morphol. 29: 253-266.
	
Farnsworth, P. (1973). Aspects of growth, morphogenesis, and patterns of differentiation in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. London, University of London.
	
Every, D. and J. M. Ashworth (1973). "The purification and properties of extracellular glycosidases of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. J. 133: 37-47.
	
Erdos, G. W., et al. (1973). "Mating types and macrocyst formation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 70: 1828-1830.
	
Erdos, G. W., et al. (1973). "The fine structure of macrocyst germination in Dictyostelium mucoroides." Dev. Biol. 32: 321-330.
	
Ellingson, J. S. (1973). Changes in the phospholipid composition in a differentiating cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum. Fed. Proc.
	
Durston, A. J. (1973). "Dictyostelium discoideum aggregation fields as excitable media." J. Theor. Biol. 42: 483-504.
	
Dimond, R. L. and W. F. Loomis (1973). Acetylglucosaminidase mutants in Dictyostelium discoideum. Genetics.
	
Dimond, R. L., et al. (1973). "Mutations affecting N-acetylglucosaminidase in Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 70: 3356-3360.
	
Deering, R. A. and D. S. Jensen (1973). "Nuclear and mitochondrial DNA synthesis in gamma-ray-resistant and -sensitive slime mold amebas." Biophys. J. 13: 780-794.
	
Coukell, M. B. and I. O. Walker (1973). "The basic nuclear proteins of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Cell Differ. 2: 87-95.
	
Cotter, D. A. (1973). "Spore germination in Dictyostelium discoideum. I. The thermodynamics of reversible activation." J. Theor. Biol. 41: 41-51.
	
Clark, M. A. and S. E. Speight (1973). Macrocyst-forming ability of morphogenetic mutants of Polysphondylium violaceum. J. Protozool.
	
Clark, M. A., et al. (1973). "Mating types in cellular slime molds." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 52: 672-678.
	
Cavender, J. C. (1973). "Geographical distribution of Acrasiae." Mycologia 65: 1044-1054.
	
Carlile, H. J. (1973). "Cell fusion and somatic incompatibility in myxomycetes." Ber. Deut. Bot. Ges. 86: 123-139.
	
Bourguignon, L. Y. W. (1973). Biological and biochemical studies on the control of differentiation in the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum. Stony Brook, NY, State University of New York (SUNY) at Stony Brook: 124.
	
Borek, E. (1973). The high aspirations of the lowly slime mold. The sculpture of life. E. Borek. New York, Columbia Univ. Press: 33-47.
	
Bonner, J. T. (1973). Hormones in social amoebae. Humoral Control of Growth and Differentiation. J. LoBue and A. S. Gordon. New York, Ac. Press: 81-98.
	
Beug, H., et al. (1973). "Quantitation of membrane sites in aggregating Dictyostelium cells by use of tritiated univalent antibody." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 70: 3150-3154.
	
Beug, H., et al. (1973). "Dynamics in antigenic membrane sites relating to cell aggregation in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Biol. 56: 647-658.
	
Bacon, C. W., et al. (1973). "Identification of a self-inhibitor from spores of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Bacteriol. 113: 1061-1063.
	
Bacon, C. W. (1973). A model for self-inhibition: the effect of the self-inhibitor on the protein-synthesizing system of Dictyostelium discoideum spores. Ann Harbor, MI, Univ. Michigan: 139.
	
Bacon, C. and A. Sussman (1973). "Effects of the self-inhibitor of Dictyostelium discoideum on spore metabolism." J. Gen. Microbiol. 76: 331-344.
	
Ashworth, J. M. and E. Wiener (1973). The lysosomes of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum. Lysosomes in Biology and Pathology. J. T. Dingle. Amsterdam, North-Holland: 38-48.
	
Ashworth, J. M. (1973). "Studies on cell differentiation in the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Soc. Trans. 1: 1233-1245.
	
Anderson, J. J. (1973). "A technique for clonal analysis of developmental mutants of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Genetics 74: S7.
	
Aldrich, H. C. and J. H. Gregg (1973). "Unit membrane structural changes following cell association in Dictyostelium." Exp. Cell Res. 81: 407-412.
	
Yuasa, A. (1972). "Review of recent studies on slime molds - especially of cytology and genetics." Trans. Mycol. Soc. Jap. 13: 302-310.
	
Yamada, T., et al. (1972). "Inhibition of differentiation in a sporeless mutants KS 17 of Dictyostelium discoideum." Cytologia 37: 383-388.
	
Wright, B. E. and G. L. Gustafson (1972). "Expansion of the kinetic model of differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 247: 7875-7884.
	
Wright, B. and M. Sussman (1972). "Actinomycin-D and genetic transcription during differentiation." Dev. Biol. 28: f13-f20.
	
Woolley, D. E. (1972). "An actin like protein from amoebae of Dictyostelium discoideum." Arch. Biophys. Biochem. 150: 519-530.
	
Wiklund, R. A. and A. C. Allison (1972). "Effects of anaesthetics on the mobility of Dictyostelium discoideum." Nature, New Biol. 239: 221-222.
	
Weinkauff, A. M. (1972). The macrocyst phase of the cellular slime molds. Madison, WI, The University of Wisconsin, Madison: 148.
	
Weeks, G. and J. M. Ashworth (1972). "Glycogen synthetase and the control of glycogen synthesis in the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum during the growth (Myxamoebal) phase." Biochem. J. 126: 617-626.
	
Tsuchiya, H. M., et al. (1972). "Predator-prey interactions of Dictyostelium discoideum and Escherichia coli in continuous culture." J. Bacteriol. 110: 1147-1153.
	
Traub, F. (1972). Acrasiales in Schweizer Waldern. Zurich, Switzerland, University of Zurich: 76.
	
Takeuchi, I. (1972). Differentiation and dedifferentiation in cellular slime molds. Aspects of Cellular and Molecular Physiology. K. Hamaguchi. Tokyo, Univ. Tokyo Press: 217-236.
	
Sussman, M. and P. C. Newell (1972). Quantal control. Molecular genetics and developmental biology. M. Sussman. Englewood Cliffs, NJ, Prentice-Hall: 275-302.
	
Sussman, M. (1972). The program of polysaccharide and disaccharide synthesis during the development of Dictyostelium discoideum. Biochemistry of the glycosidic linkage. R. Piras and H. G. Pontis. New York, Ac.Press: 431-448.
	
Sinha, U. (1972). "Acridine orange staining and iodine quartz fluorescent microscopy in Dictyostelium discoideum." Nova Hedwigia 23: 405-408.
	
Segel, L. A. and B. Stoeckly (1972). "Instability of a layer of chemotactic cells, attractant and degrading enzyme." J. Theor. Biol. 37: 561-585.
	
Segel, L. A. (1972). "On collective motions of chemotactic cells." Lectures on mathematics in the life sciences. 4: 3-46.
	
Sameshima, M., et al. (1972). "Effect of sodium fluoride on the amount of polyribosomes, single ribosomes and ribosomal subunits in a cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 281: 79-85.
	
Rossomando, E. F. and M. Sussman (1972). "Adenyl cyclase in Dictyostelium discoideum: a possible control element of the chemotactic system." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 47: 604-610.
	
Robertson, A., et al. (1972). "Control of aggregation in Dictyostelium discoideum by an external periodic pulse of cyclic adenosine monophosphate." Science 175: 333-335.
	
Robertson, A., et al. (1972). Cellular interactions in slime-mould aggregation. Cell Interactions. L. Silvestri. Amsterdam, North-Holland: 299-305.
	
Robertson, A. and M. H. Cohen (1972). "Control of developing fields." Annu. Rev. Biophys. Bioengin. 1: 409-464.
	
Robertson, A. (1972). Quantitative analysis of the development of cellular slime molds. Lectures on mathematics in the life sciences. 4. Some mathematical questions in biology. J. D. Cowan. Providence, RI, Am. Math. Soc.: 48-73.
	
Riedel, V., et al. (1972). "Cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase interaction with its inhibitor of the slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 46: 279-287.
	
Rasmussen, H., et al. (1972). Cyclic AMP, calcium, and cell activation. Calcium, parathyroid hormone and the calcitonins; proceedings of the fourth parathyroid conference. R. V. Talmage and P. L. Munson. Amsterdam, Excerpta Medica: 492-501.
	
Quance, J. and J. M. Ashworth (1972). "Enzyme synthesis in the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum during the differentiation of myxamoebae grown axenically." Biochem. J. 126: 609-615.
	
Pescatore, R. F. (1972). Competition among species of Dictyostelium. Madison, WS, University of Wisconsin.
	
Payez, J. F., et al. (1972). "Lethal effect of alkylating agents or ultraviolet light on the gamma-ray resistant parent strain and a gamma-ray sensitive strain of the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum." Mutation Res. 15: 82-85.
	
Payez, J. F. and R. A. Deering (1972). "Synergistic and antagonistic effects of caffeine on two strains of cellular slime mold treated with alkylating agents." Mutation Res. 16: 318-321.
	
Pannbacker, R. G. and L. J. Bravard (1972). "Phosphodiesterase in Dictyostelium discoideum and the chemotactic response to cyclic adenosine monophosphate." Science 175: 1014-1015.
	
Pan, P., et al. (1972). "Folic acid as second chemotactic substance in the cellular slime moulds." Nature New Biol. 237: 181-182.
	
Ono, H., et al. (1972). "Cell fusion in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Biol. 54: 665-666.
	
O'Day, D. H. (1972). An analysis of the effects of cyclic AMP and beryllium on alkaline phosphatase activity during the development of the cellular slime mold, Polysphondylium pallidum. Newark, DE, University of Delaware: 116.
	
O'Day, D. H. (1972). Microcyst formation and acetylglucosaminidase accumulation in the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium pallidum. J. Protozool.
	
Newell, P. C., et al. (1972). "Regulation of four functionally related enzymes during shifts in the developmental program of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Mol. Biol. 63: 373-382.
	
Nestle, M. and M. Sussman (1972). "The effect of cyclic AMP on morphoghenesis and enzyme accumulation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 28: 545-554.
	
Nesom, M. and L. Olive (1972). "Copromyxa arborescens, a new cellular slime mold." Mycologia 64: 1359-1362.
	
Muller-Rusterholz, U. (1972). Differenzierung und Musterbildung im Pseudoplasmodium von Dictyostelium discoideum. Zurich, Switzerland, Univ. Zurich: 53.
	
Mizukami, Y. and M. Iwabuchi (1972). "The formation of ribosomal subunits in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 272: 81-94.
	
Malkinson, A. M. and J. M. Ashworth (1972). "Extracellular concentrations of adenosine 3':5'-cyclic monophosphate during axenic growth of myxamoebae of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. J. 127: 611-612.
	
Malchow, D., et al. (1972). "Membrane-bound cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase in chemotactically responding cells of Dictyostelium discoideum." Eur. J. Biochem. 28: 136-142.
	
Loomis, W. F. (1972). "Role of the surface sheath in the control of morphogenesis in Dictyostelium discoideum." Nature New Biol. 240: 6-9.
	
Lee, K. C. (1972). "Permeability of Dictyostelium discoideum towards amino acids and inulin. A possible relationship between initiation of differentiation and loss of "pool" metabolites." J. Gen. Microbiol. 72: 457-471.
	
Lee, K. C. (1972). "Cell electrophoresis of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. II. Relevance of the change in cell surface charge density to cell aggregation and morphogenesis." J. Cell Sci. 10: 249-265.
	
Lee, K. C. (1972). "Cell electrophoresis of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. I. Characterization of some of the cell surface ionogenic groups." J. Cell Sci. 10: 229-248.
	
Leach, C. K. and J. M. Ashworth (1972). "Characterization of DNA from the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum after growth of the amoebae in different media." J. Mol. Biol. 68: 35-48.
	
Konijn, T. M. (1972). Progress report 1971 VII. Morphogenesis in the cellular slime molds (including some studies on cyclic AMP). Verhandelingen der koninklijke akademie van wetenschappen, afd. natuurkunde. Tweede reeks. Amsterdam, North-Holland: 45-49.
	
Konijn, T. M. (1972). "Cyclic AMP as a first messenger." Adv. Cycl. Nucl. Res. 1: 17-31.
	
Konijn, T. M. (1972). "Cyclic AMP and cell aggregation in the cellular slime molds." Acta Protozoologica XI: 137-143.
	
Killick, K. A. and B. E. Wright (1972). "Trehalase synthesis during differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum. 4. Secretion of trehalase and the in vitro expression of trehalose-6-phosphate synthetase activity." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 48: 1476-1481.
	
Killick, K. A. and B. E. Wright (1972). "Trehalose synthesis during differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum. III. In vitro unmasking of trehalose 6-phosphate synthetase." J. Biol. Chem. 247: 2967-2969.
	
Kientzler, M. and K. Zetsche (1972). Zur Forderung der Zellaggregation bei Polysphondylium pallidum durch Licht. Naturwissenschaften.
	
Kessin, R. H. (1972). Aspects of RNA metabolism in Dictyostelium discoideum. Waltham, MA, Brandeis Univ.: 178.
	
Katz, E. R. and M. Sussman (1972). "Parasexual recombination in Dictyostelium discoideum: selection of stable diploid heterozygotes and stable haploid segregants." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 69: 495-498.
	
Jones, P. C. T. (1972). "Central role for ATP in determining some aspects of animal and plant cell behaviour." J. Theor. Biol. 34: 1-13.
	
Jones III, W. R. and D. Francis (1972). "The action spectrum of light induced aggregation in Polysphondylium pallidum and a proposed general mechanism for light response in the cellular slime molds." Biol. Bull. 142: 461-469.
	
Hopka, C. (1972). A survey of the soil Acrasieae of Ohio. Athens, OH, Ohio Univ.
	
Hemmes, D. E., et al. (1972). "Structural and enzymatic analysis of the spore wall layer in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Ultrastruct. Res. 41: 406-417.
	
Hames, B. D., et al. (1972). "Glycogen synthetase and the control of glycogen synthesis in the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum during cell differentiation." Biochem. J. 126: 627-633.
	
Hagiwara, H. (1972). "Notes on the Acrasiales in Mt. Porosiri-dake." Mem. Natl. Sci. Mus. Tokyo 5: 173-177.
	
Gustafson, G. L. and B. E. Wright (1972). "Analysis of approaches used in studying differentiation of the cellular slime mold." CRC Crit. Rev. Microbiol. 1: 453-478.
	
Gregg, J. H. and H. C. Aldrich (1972). Unit membrane structural changes following cell association in Dictyostelium. J. Cell Biol.
	
Goidl, E. A., et al. (1972). "Inhibition of aggregation and differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum by antibodies against adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate diesterase." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 69: 1128-1130.
	
Gezelius, K. (1972). "Acid phosphatase localization during differentiation in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Arch. Mikrobiol. 85: 51-76.
	
Gerisch, G., et al. (1972). "Cyclic AMP phosphodiesterase and its inhibitor in slime mould development." Nature New Biol. 235: 90-92.
	
Gerisch, G., et al. (1972). Cell communication by chemical signals and the regulation of cyclic AMP in the development of a microorganism, Dictyostelium discoideum. Hoppe-Seyler's Z. Physiol. Chemie.
	
George, R. P., et al. (1972). "Ultrastructural development of stalk-producing cells in Dictyostelium discoideum, a cellular slime mould." J. Gen. Microbiol. 70: 477-489.
	
George, R. P., et al. (1972). "Scanning electron microscopy of spore germination in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Bacteriol. 112: 1383-1386.
	
Garssen-Hoekstra, C. (1972). Morfogenese in het migrerend pseudoplasmodium van Dictyostelium discoideum. Leiden, RUL.
	
Garrod, D. R. and J. M. Ashworth (1972). "Effect of growth conditions on development of the cellular slime mould, Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Embryol. Exp. Morphol. 28: 463-479.
	
Garrod, D. R. (1972). "Acquisition of cohesiveness by slime mould cells prior to morphogenesis." Exp. Cell Res. 72: 588-591.
	
Francis, D. and W. R. Jones (1972). Protein analysis of cell differentiation in the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium pallidum. J. Protozool.
	
Firtel, R. A., et al. (1972). "Isolation and hybridization kinetics of messenger RNA from Dictyostelium discoideum." Nature New Biol. 239: 225-228.
	
Firtel, R. A. and J. T. Bonner (1972). "Developmental control of alpha-1-4 glucan phosphorylase in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 29: 85-103.
	
Firtel, R. A. (1972). part I: Regulation of development in the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum. part II: Polysomes and RNA synthesis during early development of the surf clam, Spisula solidissima. Pasadena, CA, California Institute of Technology (Caltech): 365.
	
Firtel, R. and R. Brackenbury (1972). "Partial characterization of several protein and amino acid metabolizing enzymes in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 27: 307-321.
	
Firtel, R. and J. Bonner (1972). "Characterization of the genome of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Mol. Biol. 66: 339-361.
	
Firtel, R. (1972). "Changes in the expression of single-copy DNA during the development of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Mol. Biol. 66: 363-377.
	
Filosa, M. F. and R. E. Dengler (1972). "Ultrastructure of macrocyst formation in the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium mucoroides: extensive phagocytosis of amoebae by a specialized cell." Dev. Biol. 29: 1-16.
	
Filosa, M. F. and M. Chan (1972). "The isolation from soil of macrocyst forming strains of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium mucoroides." J. Gen. Microbiol. 71: 413-414.
	
Farnsworth, P. A. and R. James (1972). "An effect of the lon phenotype in Escherichia coli as indicated by the growth of amoebae of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 73: 447-454.
	
Erdos, G. W., et al. (1972). "The fine structure of macrocysts in Polysphondylium violaceum." Cytobiologie 6: 351-366.
	
Edmundson, T. D. and J. M. Ashworth (1972). "6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase and the assay of uridine diphosphate glucose pyrophosphorylase in the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. J. 126: 593-600.
	
Dutta, S. K. and M. Mandel (1972). "Deoxyribonucleic acid base composition of some cellular slime molds." J. Protozool. 19: 538-540.
	
Deering, R. A., et al. (1972). "Independence of propagation ability and developmental processes in irradiated cellular slime-moulds." Int. J. Radiat. Biol. 21: 235-245.
	
Cohen, M. H. and A. Robertson (1972). Differentiation for aggregation in the cellular slime molds. Cell Differentiation. R. Harris, P. Allin and D. Viza. Copenhagen, Munkgaard: 35-45.
	
Cohen, M. H. and A. Robertson (1972). Control of development: The cellular slime molds. Dev. Biol. 27: 589-593.
	
Cleveland, R. F. and R. A. Deering (1972). "Radiation induced division delay in Dictyostelium discoideum - Relation to survival in resistant and sensitive strains." Int. J. Radiat. Biol. 22: 245-256.
	
Chassy, B. M. (1972). "Cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase in Dictyostelium discoideum: interconversions of two enzyme forms." Science 175: 1016-1018.
	
Cavender, J. C. (1972). "Cellular slime molds in forest soils of eastern Canada." Can. J. Bot. 50: 1497-1501.
	
Braun, V., et al. (1972). "Degradation of the murein-lipoprotein complex of Escherichia coli cell walls by Dictyostelium amoebae." Eur. J. Biochem. 27: 116-125.
	
Bonner, J. T., et al. (1972). "Synthesis of cyclic AMP and phosphodiesterase in various species of cellular slime molds and its bearing on chemotaxis and differentiation." Dev. Biol. 29: 402-409.
	
Beug, H. and G. Gerisch (1972). "A micromethod for routine measurement of cell agglutination and dissociation." J. Immunol. Meth. 2: 49-57.
	
Ashworth, J. M. and J. Quance (1972). "Enzyme synthesis in myxamoebae of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum during growth in axenic culture." Biochem. J. 126: 601-608.
	
(1972). Chemotactic signals. Nature. 235: 128.
	
Yanagisawa, K. and T. Yamada (1971). "Appearance of wild type from mixed culture of two aggregateless mutants in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Cytologia 36: 534-538.
	
Yabuno, K. (1971). "Changes in cellular adhesiveness during the development of the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Devel. Growth Differ. 13: 181-190.
	
Wright, B. E. and R. Marshall (1971). "Trehalase synthesis during differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 246: 5335-5339.
	
Weber, A. T. and K. B. Raper (1971). "Induction of fruiting in two aggregateless mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 26: 606-615.
	
Washington, A. C. (1971). Correlation of enzyme activity and trehalose accumulation during the development of the slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum. Chicago, IL, Illinois Institute of Technoloy: 88.
	
van Wijk, R. and T. M. Konijn (1971). "Cyclic 3',5'-AMP in Saccharomyces carlsbergensis under various conditions of catabolite repression." FEBS Lett. 13: 184-186.
	
Tuech, J. A. K. (1971). Changes in acid phosphatases during differentiation of a cellular slime mold. Urbana, IL, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign: 133.
	
Telser, A. and M. Sussman (1971). "Uridine diphosphate galactose-4-epimerase, a developmentally regulated enzyme in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 246: 2252-2257.
	
Takeuchi, I. and Y. Sakai (1971). "Dedifferentiation of the disaggregated slug cell of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Devel. Growth Differ. 13: 201-210.
	
Sussman, R. and E. P. Rayner (1971). "Physical characterization of deoxyribonucleic acids in Dictyostelium discoideum." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 144: 127-137.
	
Srivastava, A., et al. (1971). "Effect of inoculation of vegetative myxamoebae of cellular slime molds (Acrasieae) in mice, rats and guinea pigs." J. Gen. Appl. Microbiol. 17: 251-257.
	
Sargent, D. and B. E. Wright (1971). "Trehalose synthesis during differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum. II. In vivo flux determinations." J. Biol. Chem. 246: 5x340-5344.
	
Sakai, Y. and I. Takeuchi (1971). "Changes of the prespore specific structure during dedifferentiation and cell type conversion of a slime mold cell." Devel. Growth Differ. 13: 231-240.
	
Rutherford, C. L. and B. E. Wright (1971). "Nucleotide metabolism during differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Bacteriol. 108: 269-275.
	
Rosness, P. A., et al. (1971). "Effects of adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate and adenosine 5'-monophosphate on glycogen degradation and synthesis in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Bacteriol. 108: 1329-1337.
	
Riedel, V. and G. Gerisch (1971). "Regulation of extracellular cyclic-AMP-phosphodiesterase activity during development of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 42: 119-124.
	
Pong, S. S. and W. F. Loomis (1971). "Enzymes of amino acid metabolism in Dictyostelium discoideum. I. Tyrosine transaminase." J. Biol. Chem. 246: 4412-4416.
	
Ochiai, H. and M. Iwabuchi (1971). "A method for the extraction of ribosomal proteins from Dictyostelium discoideum with calcium chloride-urea mixture." Bot. Mag. Tokyo 84: 267-269.
	
Norberg, A. M. (1971). The Dictyostelium mucoroides complex. Madison, Univ. Wisconsin: 136.
	
Newell, P. C., et al. (1971). "Control of enzyme synthesis by cellular interaction during development of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Mol. Biol. 58: 541-554.
	
Newell, P. C. (1971). The development of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum: A model system for the study of cellular differentiation. Essays in Biochemistry. P. N. Campbell and F. Dickens. New York, Ac. Press (for The Biochemical Soc.): 87-126.
	
Mishou, K. E. and E. F. Haskins (1971). "A survey of the Acrasieae in the soils of Washington state." Syesis 4: 179-184.
	
McQueen, D. J. (1971). "A components study of competition in two cellular slime mold species: Dictyostelium discoideum and Polysphondylium pallidum." Can. J. Zool. 49: 1163-1177.
	
McQueen, D. J. (1971). "Effects of continous competition in two species of cellular slime mold: Dictyostelium discoideum and Polysphondylium pallidum." Can. J. Zool. 49: 1305-1315.
	
Mason, J. W., et al. (1971). "3'5'AMP and Ca2+ in slime mold aggregation." Exp. Cell Res. 67: 156-160.
	
Maeda, Y. (1971). "Studies on a specific structure in differentiating slime mold cells." Mem. Fac. Sci. Kyoto Univ. (Ser. Biol.) 4: 97-107.
	
Maeda, Y. (1971). "Formation of a prespore specific structure from a mitochondrion during development of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Devel. Growth Differ. 13: 211-219.
	
Lovett, J. S. and J. A. Haselby (1971). "Molecular weights of the ribosomal ribonucleic acid of fungi." Arch. Mikrobiol. 80: 191-204.
	
Loomis, W. F. (1971). "Sensitivity of Dictyostelium discoideum to nucleic acid analogues." Exp. Cell Res. 64: 484-486.
	
Lee, Y. F. (1971). "Notes on Japanese Acrasiales. I. Genus Dictyostelium." Trans. Mycol. Soc. Japan 12: 142-150.
	
Kirk, D., et al. (1971). "Cytoplasmic connections between Dictyostelium discoideum cells." Can. J. Bot. 49: 19-20.
	
Jost, J. P. and H. V. Rickenberg (1971). "Cyclic AMP." Annu. Rev. Biochem. 40: 741-774.
	
Jones, P. C. T. (1971). "The effects of light and temperature on ATP level as a means of determining aggregation in the cellular slime molds." Biol. Bull. 141: 146-153.
	
Iwabuchi, M., et al. (1971). "Synthesis of precursor molecules of ribosomal RNA in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 228: 693-700.
	
Ito, K. and M. Iwabuchi (1971). "Conformational changes of ribosomal subunits of Dictyostelium discoideum by salts." J. Biochem. 69: 1135-1138.
	
Ikeda, T. and I. Takeuchi (1971). "Isolation and characterization of a prespore specific structure of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Devel. Growth Differ. 13: 221-229.
	
Horn, E. G. (1971). "Food competition among the cellular slime molds (Acrasiae)." Ecology 52: 475-484.
	
Hashimoto, Y. (1971). "Effect of radiation on the germination of spores of Dictyostelium discoideum." Nature 231: 316-317.
	
Hagiwara, H. (1971). "The Acrasiales in Japan. I." Bull. Natl. Sci. Mus. Tokyo 14: 351-366.
	
Gustafson, G. and B. Wright (1971). UDPG-pyrophosphorylase from the cellular slime mold. Fed. Proc.
	
Gregg, J. H. (1971). "Developmental potential of isolated Dictyostelium myxamoebae." Dev. Biol. 26: 478-485.
	
Goidl, E. A. (1971). Studies of the action of specific antibodies directed towards 3', 5'-cyclic nucleotide phosphodiesterase in the cellular slime mold Dictiostelium discoideum. Washington, DC, The American University: 58.
	
Githens III, S. (1971). Phagocytosis and development in the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium pallidum. Cambridge, MA, Harvard University.
	
Gezelius, K. (1971). "Acid phosphatase localization in myxamoebae of Dictyostelium discoideum." Arch. Microbiol. 75: 327-337.
	
Gerisch, G., et al. (1971). "Zyklisches Adenosin Monophosphat als Signalstoff der Entwichlung." Umschau 14: 532-533.
	
Gerisch, G. and H. Beug (1971). Antigens on the surface of Dictyostelium discoideum and their role in differentiation. Hoppe Seyler's Z. Physiol. Chemie.
	
Gerisch, G. (1971). "Periodische Signale steuern die Musterbildung in Zellverbanden." Naturwiss. 58: 430-438.
	
Garrod, D. R. and G. V. R. Born (1971). "Effect of temperature on the mutual adhesion of preaggregation cells of the slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 8: 751-765.
	
Fukui, Y. and I. Takeuchi (1971). "Drug resistant mutants and appearance of heterozygotes in the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 67: 307-317.
	
Franke, J. and M. Sussman (1971). "Synthesis of uridine diphosphate glucose pyrophosphorylase during the development of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 246: 6381-6388.
	
Francis, D. and D. O'Day (1971). "Sorting out in pseudoplasmodia of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Exp. Zool. 176: 265-272.
	
Feit, I. N., et al. (1971). "Appearance of polyribosomes during germination of spores in cellular slime mold Dictyostelium purpureum." Exp. Cell Res. 65: 439-444.
	
Farnsworth, P. A. and L. Wolpert (1971). "Absence of cell sorting out in the grex of the slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Nature 231: 329-330.
	
Ellouz, R. and M. Lenfant (1971). "Biosynthese de la chaine laterale ethyle du stigmastanol et du stigmasten-22,ol-3· du myxomycete Dictyostelium discoideum." Eur. J. Biochem. 23: 544-550.
	
Ellingson, J. S., et al. (1971). "Regulation of functionally related enzymes during alternative developmental programs." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 244: 388-395.
	
Correspondent (1971). "Slime moulds perfectly in step (from our cell biology correspondent)." Nature 232: 88-89.
	
Cohen, M. H. and A. Robertson (1971). "Chemotaxis and the early stages of aggregation in cellular slime molds." J. Theor. Biol. 31: 119-130.
	
Cohen, M. H. and A. Robertson (1971). "Wave propagation in the early stages of aggregation of cellular slime molds." J. Theor. Biol. 31: 101-118.
	
Chu, L. K. (1971). Analysis of ribosomes in Dictyostelium purpureum. Miami, FL, University of Miami: 89.
	
Chi, Y. Y. and D. Francis (1971). "Cyclic AMP and calcium exchange in a cellular slime mold." J. Cell. Physiol. 77: 169-174.
	
Careri, G., et al. (1971). "Morphological observations on the preaggregating slime mould amoebae." Atti della accademica nazionale dei Lincei rendiconti 50: 577-579.
	
Bonner, J. T., et al. (1971). "Further evidence for the sorting out of cells in the differentiation of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Embryol. Exp. Morphol. 25: 457-465.
	
Bonner, J. T., et al. (1971). "Comparison of a leukocyte and a cellular slime mold chemotaxis test." Exp. Cell Res. 68: 61-64.
	
Bonner, J. T. (1971). Cyclic AMP in the cellular slime molds. The role of adenyl cyclase and cyclic 3',5' AMP in biological systems. M. Rodbell and P. Condliffe. Bethesda, MD, Nih. 4: 247-262.
	
Bonner, J. T. (1971). "Aggregation and differentiation in the cellular slime molds." ARM 25: 75-92.
	
Beug, H., et al. (1971). "Cell dissociation: univalent antibodies as a possible alternative to proteolytic enzymes." Science 173: 742-743.
	
Bauer, R., et al. (1971). "The biosynthesis of glycoproteins during the development of Dictyostelium discoideum. The transfer of D-mannose in vegetative and aggregated cells." Eur. J. Biochem. 21: 179-190.
	
Ashworth, J. M. (1971). "Cell development in the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Symp. Soc. Exp. Biol.: 27-49.
	
Yanagisawa, K. (1970). "Complementation of developmental mutants in the cellular slime molds." Nucleus and Cytoplasm 14: 2-14.
	
Yamada, T., et al. (1970). "Observations and experiments on the cellular slime molds found in Japan. III." Collecting and Breeding 32: 6-12.
	
Yabuno, K. (1970). "Changes in electronegativity of the cell surface during the development of the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum." Devel. Growth Differ. 12: 229-239.
	
Wright, B. E. (1970). "The use of kinetic models to analyze differentiation." Behav. Sci. 15: 37-45.
	
Woolley, D. E. and P. C. T. Jones (1970). "Correlation of adenosine phosphate levels with cellular morphology in Dictyostelium discoideum amoebae." J. Cell. Physiol. 76: 191-196.
	
Woolley, D. E. (1970). An actin-like protein from amoebae of Dictyostelium discoideum. Fed. Proc.
	
Woolley, D. E. (1970). "Extraction of an actomyosin-like protein from amoebae of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell. Physiol. 76: 185-190.
	
Wiener, E. and J. M. Ashworth (1970). "The Isolation and characterization of lysosomal particles from myxamoebae of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. J. 118: 505-512.
	
Weber, A. T. (1970). Drug resistant and morphogenetically aberrant mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum. Madison, WI, The University of Wisconsin - Madison: 160.
	
Watts, D. J. and J. M. Ashworth (1970). "Growth of myxamoebae of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum in axenic culture." Biochem. J. 119: 171-174.
	
Takeuchi, I. and K. Yabuno (1970). "Disaggregation of slime mold pseudoplasmodia using EDTA and various proteolytic enzymes." Exp. Cell Res. 61: 183-190.
	
Sussman, M. (1970). "Model for quantitative and qualitative control of mRNA translation in eukaryotes." Nature 225: 1245-1246.
	
Sharma and Borek (1970). "Inhibitor of transfer ribonucleic acid methylases in the differentiating slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Bacteriol. 101: 705-708.
	
Schwalb, M. and R. Roth (1970). "Axenic growth and development of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 60: 283-286.
	
Reinhardt, D. J. (1970). Natural variation in the cellular slime mold Acrasis rosea. Am. J. Bot.
	
Pannbacker, R. G. and L. J. Bravard (1970). Phosphodiesterase activity and the chemotactic response of Dictyostelium discoideum. Bacteriol. Proc.
	
Olive, L. (1970). "The mycetozoa: a revised classification." Bot. Rev. 36: 59-87.
	
Nigam, V. N., et al. (1970). "Die enzymatische Abspaltung langskettiger Fettsauren aus bakteriellen Lipopolysacchariden mittels Extrakten aus der Amobe von Dictyostelium discoideum." Hoppe-Seyler's Z. Physiol. Chemie 351: 1123-1132.
	
Newell, P. C. and M. Sussman (1970). "Regulation of enzyme synthesis by slime mold cell assemblies embarked upon alternative developmental programs." J. Mol. Biol. 49: 627-637.
	
Mizukami, Y. and M. Iwabuchi (1970). "Differential synthesis of ribosomal subunit during development in the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biochem. 67: 501-504.
	
Mizukami, Y. and M. Iwabuchi (1970). "Effects of actinomycin D and cycloheximide on the morphogenesis and synthesis of RNA and protein in the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Cell Res. 63: 317-324.
	
McQueen, D. J. (1970). Laboratory studies of competition in two species of cellular slime molds; Dictyostelium discoideum and Polysphondylium pallidum. Vancouver, BC (Canada), The University of British Columbia.
	
Marshall, R., et al. (1970). "Glycogen turnover in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochemistry 9: 3087-3094.
	
Mandel, M. (1970). DNA base compositions of eucaryotic protists. Handbook of Biochemistry, 2nd edition. H. A. Sober. Cleveland, Ohio, CRC: H75-H79.
	
Maeda, Y. (1970). "Influence of ionic conditions on cell differentiation and morphogenesis of the cellular slime molds." Devel. Growth Differ. 12: 217-227.
	
Loomis, W. F. (1970). "Mutants in phototaxis of Dictyostelium discoideum." Nature 227: 745-746.
	
Loomis, W. F. (1970). "Temporal control of differentiation in the slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Cell Res. 60: 285-289.
	
Loomis, W. F. (1970). "Developmental regulation of alpha-mannosidase in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Bacteriol. 103: 375-381.
	
Konijn, T. M. (1970). "Microbiological assay for cyclic 3',5'-AMP." Experientia 26: 367-369.
	
Khoury, A. T., et al. (1970). "Gamma-ray-induced spore germination of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Bacteriol. 104: 1022-1023.
	
Keller, E. F. and L. A. Segel (1970). "Conflict between positive and negative feedback as an explanation for the initiation of aggregation in slime mould amoebae." Nature 227: 1365-1366.
	
Keller, E. F. and L. A. Segel (1970). "Initiation of slime mold aggregation viewed as an instability." J. Theor. Biol. 26: 399-415.
	
Jones, T. H. D. and B. E. Wright (1970). "Partial purification and characterization of glycogen phosphorylase from Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Bacteriol. 104: 754-761.
	
Jones, P. C. T. (1970). "The interaction of light and temperature in determining ATP levels in the myxamoebae of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum Acr 12." Cytobios 6: 89-94.
	
Iwabuchi, M., et al. (1970). "Characterization of ribosomes in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biochem. 68: 549-559.
	
Ito, K. and M. Iwabuchi (1970). "Liquid culture of amoebae of Dictyostelium discoideum using dead bacteria." Bot. Mag. Tokyo 83: 387-389.
	
Inoue, H. (1970). Terrestrial Cryptograms of Chichijima and Hahajima, the Bonin Islands. The nature of the Bonin and the Volcano Islands. K. Yoshioka. Tokyo, Higher Education and Science Bureau, Ministry of Education and Cultural Properties Protection Division, Agency for Cultural Affairs: 125-136.
	
Hohl, H., et al. (1970). "Ultrastuctural changes during formation and germination of microcysts in Polysphondylium pallidum, a cellular slime mould." J. Cell Sci. 7: 285-306.
	
Hashimoto, Y. and K. Yanagisawa (1970). "Effect of radiation on the spore germination of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Radiat. Res. 44: 649-659.
	
Gregg, J. H. and W. S. Badman (1970). "Morphogenesis and ultrastructure in Dictyostelium." Dev. Biol. 22: 96-111.
	
Gingell, D., et al. (1970). Divalent cations and cell adhesion. Symposium on calcium and cellular function. A. W. Cuthbert. New York, MacMillan: 59-64.
	
Gerisch, G. (1970). "Immunochemische Untersuchungen an Plasmamembranen aggregierender Zellen." Deut. Zool. Ges. 64: 6-14.
	
George, R. P., et al. (1970). "Rapid freeze preparation of Dictyostelium discoideum for scanning electron microscopy." Proceedings, Cambridge Stereoscan Colloquium.: 159-165.
	
Garrod, D. R., et al. (1970). "Electrical properties of the slime mould grex." J. Embryol. Exp. Morphol. 23: 311-322.
	
Garrod, D. R. and D. Gingell (1970). "A proggresive change in the electrophoretic mobility of preaggregation cells of the slime mould, Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 6: 277-284.
	
Garland, R. C. (1970). The purification and properties of D(-)lactate dehydrogenases from Leuconostoc mesenteroides and Polysphondylium pallidum. Waltham, MA, Brandeis University: 253.
	
Freim, J. O. and R. A. Deering (1970). "Ultraviolet irradiation of the vegetative cells of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Bacteriol. 182: 36-42.
	
Firtel, R. and J. Bonner (1970). Developmental control of alpha-1,4-glucan phosphorylase in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. Proc. Fed. Am. Soc. Exp. Biol.
	
Ferber, E., et al. (1970). "High phospholipase activities in amoebae of Dictyostelium discoideum." Eur. J. Biochem. 14: 253-257.
	
Ellouz, R. and M. Lenfant (1970). "Sur deux voies de biosynthese du stigmasten-22,ol-3beta de Dictyostelium discoideum." Tetrahedron Lett. No. 46: 3967-3970.
	
Deering, R. A., et al. (1970). "Gamma-ray-resistant and -sensitive strains of slime mold (Dictyostelium discoideum)." Radiat. Res. 43: 711-728.
	
Cotter, D. A. and K. B. Raper (1970). "Spore germination in Dictyostelium discoideum: Trehalase and the requirement for protein synthesis." Dev. Biol. 22: 112-128.
	
Cocucci, S. M. and M. Sussman (1970). "RNA in cytoplasmic and nuclear fractions of cellular slime mold amebas." J. Cell Biol. 45: 399-407.
	
Ceccarini, C., et al. (1970). "Ribosomal subunit exchange in Dictyostelium purpureum." J. Cell Biol. 46: 428-430.
	
Ceccarini, C., et al. (1970). "Biosynthesis and distribution of ribosomal particles in the cellular slime mould, Dictyostelium purpureum." J. Mol. Biol. 54: 33-44.
	
Ceccarini, C., et al. (1970). "A new cytoplasmic ribonucleoprotein particle in the cellular slime, Dictyostelium purpureum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 217: 212-215.
	
Cavender, J. C. (1970). "Dictyostelium dimigraformum, Dictyostelium laterosorum and Acytostelium ellipticum: new acrasieae from the American tropics." J. Gen. Microbiol. 62: 113-123.
	
Brewer, J. E. and L. G. Bell (1970). "Long-range electrostatic interactions between amoebae and anion-exchange particles." Exp. Cell Res. 61: 397-402.
	
Bonner, J. T., et al. (1970). "Evidence for a second chemotactic system in the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Bacteriol. 102: 682-687.
	
Bonner, J. T. (1970). The chemical ecology of cells in the soil. Chemical Ecology. E. Sondheimer and J. B. Simeone. New York, Ac. Press: 1-19.
	
Bonner, J. T. (1970). "Induction of stalk cell differentiation by cyclic AMP in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 65: 110-113.
	
Beug, H., et al. (1970). "Specific inhibition of cell contact formation in Dictyostelium by univalent antibodies." Exp. Cell Res. 63: 147-158.
	
Ashworth, J. M. and D. J. Watts (1970). "Metabolism of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum grown in axenic culture." Biochem. J. 119: 175-182.
	
Yanagisawa, K., et al. (1969). "A study of differentiation in the cellular slime mold by using developmental mutants." Zool. Mag. 78: 277-286.
	
Yanagida, M. and H. Noda (1969). "Molecular organization of cell membranes isolated from myxamoebae of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum I. Presence of membrane sub-units and the physical properties." J. Biochem. 65: 709-720.
	
Yanagida, M. and H. Noda (1969). "Molecular organization of cell membranes isolated from myxamoebae of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. II. Reassociation of membrane subunits." J. Biochem. 65: 721-739.
	
Yamada, T., et al. (1969). "Observations and experiments on the cellular slime molds found in Japan. II." Collecting and Breeding 31: 366-371.
	
Yamada, T., et al. (1969). "Observations and experiments on the cellular slime molds found in Japan. I." Collecting and Breeding 31: 330-334.
	
Takeuchi, I. (1969). Establishment of polar organization during slime mold development. Nucleic acid metabolism cell differentiation and cancer growth. E. V. Cowdry and S. Seno. New York, Pergamon Press: 297-304.
	
Sussman, M. and R. Sussman (1969). Patterns of RNA synthesis and of enzyme accumulation and disappearance during cellular slime mould cytodifferentiation. Microbial Growth (19th Symp. Soc. Gen. Microbiol.). P. Meadow and S. J. Pirt. Cambridge, UK, Cambridge Univ. Press. 19: 403-435.
	
Sinha, U. and J. M. Ashworth (1969). "Evidence for the existence of elements of a para-sexual cycle in the cellular slime mould, Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. R. Soc. Lond. B 173: 531-540.
	
Sackin, M. J. and J. M. Ashworth (1969). "An analysis of the distribution of volumes amongst spores of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 59: 275-284.
	
Riedel, V. and G. Gerisch (1969). "Unterschiede im Makromolekuelbestand zwischen vegetativen und aggregationsreifen Zellen von Dictyostelium discoideum (Acrasina)." W.R. Arch. Entw. Mech. 162: 268-285.
	
Pillinger, D. and E. Borek (1969). "Transfer RNA methylases during morphogenesis in the cellular slime mold." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 62: 1145-1150.
	
Newell, P. C., et al. (1969). "Alternative developmental pathways determined by environmental conditions in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Bacteriol. 100: 763-768.
	
Newell, P. C. and M. Sussman (1969). "Uridine diphosphate glucose pyrophosphorylase in Dictyostelium discoideum. Stability and developmental fate." J. Biol. Chem. 244: 2990-2995.
	
Newell, P. C., et al. (1969). "Synchrony of enzyme accumulation in a population of differentiating slime mold cells." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 177: 610-614.
	
Miller, Z. I., et al. (1969). "Biochemical and cytological heterogeneity of the differentiating cells of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. J. 114: 815-818.
	
Malchow, D., et al. (1969). "Polysaccharides in vegetative and aggregation-competent amoebae of Dictyostelium discoideum. 2. Purification and characterization of amoeba-degraded bacterial polysaccharides." Eur. J. Biochem. 7: 239-246.
	
Maeda, Y. and I. Takeuchi (1969). "Cell differentiation and fine structures in the development of the cellular slime molds." Devel. Growth Differ. 11: 232-245.
	
Loomis, W. F. (1969). "Developmental regulation of alkaline phosphatase in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Bacteriol. 100: 417-422.
	
Loomis, W. F. (1969). "Acetyl-glucosaminidase, an early enzyme in the development of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Bacteriol. 97: 1149-1154.
	
Loomis, W. F. (1969). "Temperature-sensitive mutants of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Bacteriol. 99: 65-69.
	
Lenfant, M., et al. (1969). "Sur la biosynthese de la chaine laterale ethyle des sterols du Myxomycete Dictyostelium discoideum." Eur. J. Biochem. 7: 159-164.
	
Krichevsky, M. I., et al. (1969). "Acceleration of morphogenesis in Dictyostelium discoideum by exogenous mononucleotides." J. Gen. Microbiol. 57: 383-389.
	
Konijn, T. M., et al. (1969). "Identification of adenosine-3',5'-monophosphate as the bacterial attractant for myxamoebae of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Bacteriol. 99: 510-512.
	
Konijn, T. M., et al. (1969). "Synthesis of cyclic AMP in Dictyostelium discoideum and Polysphondylium pallidum." Nature 224: 1211-1212.
	
Konijn, T. M. (1969). "Effect of bacteria on chemotaxis in the cellular slime molds." J. Bacteriol. 99: 503-509.
	
Iwabuchi, M. and H. Ochiai (1969). "Sedimentation properties of ribosomal particles in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta. 190: 211-213.
	
Horn, E. G. (1969). Some aspects of food competition among the cellular slime molds. Princeton, NJ, Princeton University: 39.
	
Hohl, H. R. and S. T. Hamamoto (1969). "Ultrastructure of Acrasis rosea, a cellular slime mold during development." J. Protozool. 16: 333-344.
	
Hohl, H. R. and S. T. Hamamoto (1969). "Ultrastructure of spore differentiation in Dictyostelium: The prespore vacuole." J. Ultrastruct. Res. 26: 442-453.
	
Gingell, D. and D. R. Garrod (1969). "Effect of EDTA on electrophoretic mobility of slime mould cells and its relationship to current theories of cell adhesion." Nature 221: 192-193.
	
Gerisch, G., et al. (1969). "Artspezifitat Polysaccharid-haltiger Zellmmembran-Antigene von Dictyostelium discoideum." Eur. J. Biochem. 9: 229-236.
	
Garrod, D. R. (1969). "The cellular basis of movement of the migrating grex of the slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell Sci. 4: 781-798.
	
Garrod, D. R. (1969). "The way some cells creep." New Scientist 43, no. 661: 285-287.
	
Francis, D. (1969). "Time sequences for differentiation in cellular slime molds." Quart. Rev. Biol. 44: 277-290.
	
Feit, I. N. (1969). Evidence for the regulation of aggregate density by the production of ammonia in the cellular slime molds. Princeton, NJ, Princeton University: 65.
	
Erickson, S. K. and J. M. Ashworth (1969). "The mitochondrial electron-transport system of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. J. 113: 567-568.
	
Ellouz, R. and M. Lenfant (1969). "Sur la formation in vivo de la double liaison en position 22,23 d'un sterol de Dictyostelium discoideum." Tetrahedron Lett. No. 8: 609-612.
	
Ellouz, R. and M. Lenfant (1969). "Transformation du stigmastanol en stigmasten-22,ol-3beta par Dictyostelium discoideum." Tetrahedron Lett. No. 31: 2655-2657.
	
Cotter, D. A., et al. (1969). "Ultrastructural changes during germination of Dictyostelium discoideum spores." J. Bacteriol. 100: 1020-1026.
	
Cotter, D. A. and H. R. Hohl (1969). "Correlation between plaque size and spore size in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Bacteriol. 98: 321-322.
	
Coston, M. B. and W. F. Loomis (1969). "Isozymes of beta-glucosidase in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Bacteriol. 100: 1208-1217.
	
Cleland, S. V. and E. L. Coe (1969). "Conversion of aspartic acid to glucose during culmination in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 192: 446-454.
	
Cleland, S. V. (1969). Gluconeogenesis and glycolysis in Dictyostelium discoideum. Evanston, IL, Northwestern Univ.: 123.
	
Chassy, B. M., et al. (1969). Purification, properties and biological role of an extracellular nucleoside-3',5'-cyclic phosphate phosphodiesterase from Dictyostelium discoideum. Fed. Proc.
	
Chassy, B. M., et al. (1969). "The acrasin activity of 3',5'-cyclic nucleotides." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 64: 296-303.
	
Ceccarini, C., et al. (1969). "Ribosomal subunits in Dictyostelium discoideum - the effect of an ionic detergent and a nonionic detergent.  Dictyostelium purpureum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 190: 66-72.
	
Cavender, J. C. (1969). "The occurrence and distribution of Acrasieae in forest soils. I. Europe." Am. J. Bot. 56: 989-992.
	
Cavender, J. C. (1969). "The occurrence and distribution of Acrasieae in forest soils. II. Eastern Africa." Am. J. Bot. 56: 993-998.
	
Bonner, J. T., et al. (1969). "Acrasin, acrasinase, and the sensitivity to acrasin in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 20: 72-87.
	
Bonner, J. T. (1969). "Hormones in social amoebae and mammals." Scientific Am. 220 (June): 78-91.
	
Beug, H. and G. Gerisch (1969). "Univalente Fragmente von Antikorpern zur Analyse von Zellmembran-Funktionen." Naturwissensch. 7: 374.
	
Baumann, P. and B. E. Wright (1969). "The fructose 1,6-diphosphatase of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochemistry 8: 1655-1659.
	
Baumann, P. (1969). "Glucokinase of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochemistry 8: 5011-5015.
	
Barravechio, J., et al. (1969). "Cell volume determinations of Dictyostelium discoideum." Appl. Microbiol. 17: 641-642.
	
Barkley, D. S. (1969). "Adenosine-3',5'-phosphate: identification as acrasine in a species of cellular slime mold." Science 165: 1133-1134.
	
Ashworth, J. M. and M. J. Sackin (1969). "Role of aneuploid cells in cell differentiation in the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Nature 224: 817-818.
	
Ashworth, J. M., et al. (1969). "Changes in fine structure during cell differentiation of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Cell Res. 58: 73-78.
	
Wright, B. E., et al. (1968). "A kinetic model of metabolism esential to differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 60: 644-651.
	
Wright, B. E., et al. (1968). "Cell wall synthesis in Dictyostelium discoideum. A model system for the synthesis of alkali-insoluble cell wall glycogen during differentiation." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 124: 380-385.
	
Wright, B. E. and D. Dahlberg (1968). "Stability in vitro of uridine diphosphoglucose pyrophosphorylase in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Bacteriol. 95: 983-985.
	
Wright, B. E. (1968). Differentiation in the cellular slime mold. Systems Theory and Biology. M. D. Mesarovic. New York, NY, Springer-Verlag: 115-129.
	
Wright, B. E. (1968). "An analysis of metabolism underlying differentiation in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell. Physiol. Suppl. 1 72: 145-160.
	
Smith, K. L. and R. P. Keeling (1968). "Distribution of the Acrasieae in Kansas grasslands." Mycologia 60: 711-712.
	
Shaffer, B. M. (1968). Changes in cell properties in cellular slime moulds. J. Gen. Microbiol.
	
Roth, R. and M. Sussman (1968). "Trehalose 6-phosphate synthetase (uridine diphosphate glucose:D-glucose 6-phosphate 1-glucosyltransferase) and its regulation during slime mold development." J. Biol. Chem. 243: 5081-5087.
	
Roth, R., et al. (1968). "Periods of genetic transcription required for the synthesis of three enzymes during cellular slime mold development." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 59: 1235-1242.
	
Rosness, P. A. (1968). "Cellulolytic enzymes during morphogenesis in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Bacteriol. 96: 639-645.
	
Riedel, V. and G. Gerisch (1968). "Isolierung der Zellmembranen von kollektiven Amoeben (Acrasina) mit Hilfe von Digitonin und Filipin." Die Naturwissenschaften 55: 656.
	
Reinhardt, D. J. and A. L. Mancinelli (1968). "Developmental responses of Acrasis rosea to the visible light spectrum." Dev. Biol. 18: 30-41.
	
Reinhardt, D. J. (1968). "The effects of light on the development of the cellular slime mold Acrasis rosea." Am. J. Bot. 55: 77-86.
	
Raper, K. B. and J. C. Cavender (1968). "Dictyostelium rosarium: a new cellular slime mold with beaded sorocarps." J. Elisha Mitchell Sci. Soc. 84: 31-47.
	
Pannbacker, R. G. (1968). Nucleotide metabolism during development in the cellular slime mold. Cambridge, MA, Harvard University.
	
Loomis, W. F. and J. M. Ashworth (1968). "Plaque-size mutants of the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 53: 181-186.
	
Loomis, W. F. (1968). "The relation between cytodifferentiation and inactivation of a developmentally-controlled enzyme in Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Cell Res. 53: 283-287.
	
Krichevsky, M. I. and L. L. Love (1968). "Accumulation of mononucleotides in washed suspensions of myxamoebae of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 50: 15-21.
	
Konijn, T. M., et al. (1968). "Cyclic AMP: a naturally occurring acrasin in the cellular slime molds." Am. Naturalist 102: 225-233.
	
Konijn, T. M. (1968). "Chemotaxis in the cellular slime molds. II. The effect of cell density." Biol. Bull. 134: 298-304.
	
Kahn, A. J. (1968). "An analysis of the spacing of aggregation centers in Polysphondylium pallidum." Dev. Biol. 18: 149-162.
	
Hohl, H. R., et al. (1968). "Ultrastructural aspects of cell elongation, cellulose synthesis, and spore differentiation in Acytostelium leptosomum, a cellular slime mold." Am. J. Bot. 55: 783-796.
	
Hohl, H. R. and S. T. Hamamoto (1968). "Lamellate structures in the nucleolus of the cellular slime mold Acrasis rosea." Pacific Sci. 22: 402-407.
	
Hirschberg, E., et al. (1968). "Effects of inhibitors of nucleic acid and protein synthesis on growth and aggregation of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 61: 316-323.
	
Harrington, B. J. and K. B. Raper (1968). "Use of a fluorescent brightener to demonstrate cellulose in the cellular slime mold." J. Appl. Microbiol. 16: 106-113.
	
Gregg, J. H. (1968). "Prestalk cell isolates in Dictyostelium." Exp. Cell Res. 51: 633-642.
	
Gerisch, G. (1968). Cellular aggregation in slime molds. Conferences on Cellular Dynamics. L. D. Peachey. New York, NY, NYAS: 402-405.
	
Gerisch, G. (1968). Cell contact interactions in Dictyostelium. Excerpta Med. Int. Congress Series No. 166.
	
Gerisch, G. (1968). Cell aggregation and differentiation in Dictyostelium. Current Topics in Developmental Biology. A. A. Moscona and A. Monroy. New York, Ac. Press: 157-197.
	
George, R. (1968). Cell organization and ultrastructure during culmination of cellular slime molds., Univ. Hawaii.
	
Garrod, D. R. and L. Wolpert (1968). "Behaviour of the cell surface during movement of pre aggregation cells of the slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum studied with fluorescent antibody." J. Cell Sci. 3: 365-372.
	
Freim Jr., J. O. (1968). Radiation studies on vegetative Dictyostelium discoideum cells. University Park, PA, The Pennsylvania State University (Penn State): 131.
	
editor (1968). "Messenger for mold and man." Scientific Am. 219 (Oct.): 60.
	
Deering, R. A. (1968). "Dictyostelium discoideum: a gamma-ray resistant organism." Science 162: 1289-1290.
	
Cotter, D. A. and K. B. Raper (1968). "Factors affecting the rate of heat-induced spore germination in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Bacteriol. 96: 86-92.
	
Cotter, D. and K. Raper (1968). "Spore germination in strains of Dictyostelium discoideum and other members of the Dictyosteliaceae." J. Bacteriol. 96: 1690-1695.
	
Cotter, D. and K. Raper (1968). "Properties of germinating spores of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Bacteriol. 96: 1680-1689.
	
Cleland, S. V. and E. L. Coe (1968). Alcohol-soluble proteins of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium. Fed. Proc.
	
Cleland, S. V. and E. L. Coe (1968). "Activities of glycolytic enzymes during the early stages of differentiation in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 156: 44-50.
	
Chang, Y. Y. (1968). "Cyclic 3',5'-adenosine monophosphate phosphodiesterase produced by the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Science 161: 57-59.
	
Ceccarini, C. and R. Maggio (1968). "Studies on the ribosomes from the cellular slime molds, Dictyostelium discoideum and Dictyostelium purpureum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 166: 134-141.
	
Cavender, J. C. and K. B. Raper (1968). "The occurrence and distribution of Acrasieae in forests of subtropical and tropical America." Am. J. Bot. 55: 504-513.
	
Born, G. V. R. and D. Garrod (1968). "Photometric demonstration of aggregation of slime mould cells showing effects of temperature and ionic strength." Nature 220: 616-618.
	
Baumann, P. and B. E. Wright (1968). "The phosphofructo kinase of Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochemistry 7: 3653-3661.
	
Barkley, D. S. (1968). Acrasin: its isolation and identification in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. Princeton, NJ, Princeton University: 65.
	
Ashworth, J. M. (1968). The life and times of the slime mould. New Scientist. 38, no. 602: 629-631.
	
Anderson, J. S., et al. (1968). "Dictyostelium deminutivum, a new cellular slime mold." Mycologia 60: 49-64.
	
Yanagisawa, K., et al. (1967). "Developmental regulation of the enzyme UDP-galactose polysaccharide transferase." Exp. Cell Res. 46: 328-334.
	
Yanagida, M. and H. Noda (1967). "Cell contact and cell surface properties in the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Cell Res. 45: 399-414.
	
Wright, B. E. and R. Pannbacker (1967). "Inhibition by actinomycin-D of uridine diphosphoglucose synthetase activity during differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Bacteriol. 93: 1762-1764.
	
Wright, B. E. and D. Dahlberg (1967). "Cell wall synthesis in Dictyostelium discoideum. 2. Synthesis of soluble glycogen by a cytoplasmic enzyme." Biochemistry 6: 2074-2079.
	
Wright, B. E. (1967). "On the evolution of differentiation." Arch. Mikrobiol. 59: 335-344.
	
Wright, B. (1967). Control of enzyme activities in D. discoideum during development. The molecular aspects of biological development. R. A. Deering and M. Trask. Wasington, DC, NASA: 109-122.
	
Toama, M. A. and K. B. Raper (1967). "Microcysts of the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium pallidum. I. Factors influencing microcyst formation." J. Bacteriol. 94: 1143-1149.
	
Toama, M. A. and K. B. Raper (1967). "Microcysts of the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium pallidum. II. Chemistry of the microcyst walls." J. Bacteriol. 94: 1150-1153.
	
Toama, M. A. (1967). The microcysts of the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium pallidum. Madison, WI, The University of Wisconsin - Madison: 145.
	
Sussman, R. R. (1967). "RNA metabolism during cytodifferentiation in the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium pallidum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 149: 407-421.
	
Sussman, R. and M. Sussman (1967). "Cultivation of Dictyostelium discoideum in axenic culture." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 29: 53-55.
	
Sussman, R., et al. (1967). "The effect of actinomycin D on cellular slime mold morphogenesis." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 26: 353-359.
	
Sussman, M. (1967). On the temporal distribution of biochemical events in a cell population during cytodifferentiation. 7th International Congress of Biochemistry (Tokyo).
	
Sussman, M. (1967). "Evidence for temporal and quantitative control of genetic transcription and translation during slime mold development." Fed. Proc. 26: 77-83.
	
Staples, S. O. and J. H. Gregg (1967). "Carotenoid pigments in the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum." Biol. Bull. 132: 413-422.
	
Roth, R. M. (1967). Trehalose synthetase, a developmentally regulated enzyme in the slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum. Waltham, MA, Brandeis University: 137.
	
Raper, K. B. and D. I. Fennell (1967). "The crampon-based Dictyostelia." Am. J. Bot. 54: 515-528.
	
Pannbacker, R. G. and B. E. Wright (1967). Carbohydrate accumulation in the protist - A biochemical model of differentiation. Chemical Zoology. M. Florkin and B. T. Scheer. New York, Ac. Press: 573-616.
	
Pannbacker, R. G. (1967). "Uridine diphosphoglucose biosynthesis during differentiation in the cellular slime mold I. In vivo measurements." Biochemistry 6: 1283-1286.
	
Pannbacker, R. G. (1967). "UDPG-biosynthesis during differentiation in the cellular slime mold II. In vitro measurements." Biochemistry 6: 1287-1293.
	
Nelson, N., et al. (1967). "A new species of Dictyostelium from Hawaii." Am. J. Bot. 54: 354-358.
	
Mine, H. and I. Takeuchi (1967). "Tetrazolium reduction in slime mould development." Ann. Report Biol. Works 15: 97-111.
	
Malchow, D., et al. (1967). "Polysaccharide in vegetativen und aggregationsreifen Amoben von Dictyostelium discoideum. 1. In vivo Degradierung von Bakterien-Lipopolysaccharid." Eur. J. Biochem. 2: 469-479.
	
Lenfant, M., et al. (1967). "Biosynthesis of the ethyl side chain of stigmasterol derivatives by the slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Tetrahedron Lett. no. 12: 1049-1052.
	
Konijn, T. M., et al. (1967). "The acrasin activity of adenosine-3',5'-cyclic phosphate." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 58: 1152-1154.
	
Kahn, A. J. (1967). Cell interactions in slime mold (acrasina) development. The molecular aspects of biological development. R. A. Deering and M. Trask. Washington, DC, NASA: 123-129.
	
Jergenson, L. C. and W. G. Long (1967). "The Acrasiales of a South Dakota woodlot." Proc. S. D. Acad. Sci. 46: 153-157.
	
Inselburg, J. and M. Sussman (1967). "Incorporation of 3H-uridine into RNA during cellular slime mould development." J. Gen. Microbiol. 46: 59-64.
	
Huffman, D. M. (1967). "The role of engulfment in the Dictyosteliaceae." J. Protozool. 14: 762-764.
	
Hohl, H. R. and S. T. Hamamoto (1967). "Reversal of ethionine inhibition by methionine during cellular slime mold development." Pacific Sci. 21: 534-538.
	
Hanks, A. R. (1967). Changes in RNA, DNA, and protein during interphase in the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum. University Park, PA, The Pennsylvania State University (Penn State): 113.
	
Gregg, J. H. (1967). Antigen synthesis during reorganization in the cellular slime molds. The molecular aspects of biological development. R. A. Deering and M. Trask. Washington, DC, NASA: 93-107.
	
Gregg, J. H. (1967). Cellular slime molds. Methods in developmental biology. F. H. Wilt and N. K. Wessells. New York, Crowell: 359-376.
	
Gezelius, K. (1967). Studies in the ultrastructure, growth and biochemical differentiation of Dictyostelium discoideum Raper. Almqvist & Wiksell, Stockholm, University of Uppsala: 15.
	
Gerisch, G., et al. (1967). "Antikorper fordern die Phagozytose von Bacterien durch Amoben." Z. Naturforsch. 22B: 109.
	
Garland, R. C. and N. O. Kaplan (1967). "Salt-induced alteration of D(-)LDH from Polysphondylium pallidum." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 26: 679-685.
	
Cotter, D. A. and K. B. Raper (1967). Analysis of heat shock-induced germination in Dictyostelium discoideum. J. Cell Biol.
	
Cotter, D. A. (1967). Heat induced spore germination in Dictyostelium discoideum. Madison, WI, The University of Wisconsin - Madison: 163.
	
Cohen, A. and C. Ceccarini (1967). "Inhibition of spore germination in the cellular slime moulds." Ann. Botany 31: 479-487.
	
Ceccarini, C. and A. Cohen (1967). "Germination inhibitor from the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." Nature 214: 1345-1346.
	
Ceccarini, C. (1967). "The biochemical relationship between trehalase and trehalose during growth and differentiation in the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 148: 114-124.
	
Bonner, J. T. (1967). The cellular slime molds. Second edition. Princeton, NJ, Princeton Univ. Press.
	
Ashworth, J. M. and M. Sussman (1967). "The appearance and disappearance of uridine diphosphate glucose pyrophosphorylase activity during differentiation of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 242: 1696-1700.
	
Wright, B. E., et al. (1966). "Cell wall polysaccharide synthesis in vitro catalyzed by an enzyme from slime mold myxamoebae lacking a cell wall." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 22: 352-356.
	
Wright, B. E. (1966). Control of carbohydrate synthesis in the slime mold. Developmental and metabolic control mechanisms and neoplasia. Baltimore, MD, Williams and Wilkins Comp.: 296-316.
	
Wright, B. E. (1966). "Multiple causes and controls in differentiation." Science 153: 830-837.
	
Williams, G. C. (1966). Adaptation and natural selection. Princeton, NJ, Princeton Univ. Press.
	
Sussman, M. (1966). "Protein synthesis and the temporal control of genetic transcription during slime mold development." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 55: 813-818.
	
Sussman, M. (1966). Some genetic and biochemical aspects of the regulatory program for slime mold development. Current Topics in Developmental Biology. A. A. Moscona and A. Monroy. New York, Ac. Press: 61-83.
	
Sussman, M. (1966). "Biochemical and genetic methods in the study of cellular slime mold development." Meth. Cell Physiol.: 397-409.
	
Stong, C. L. (1966). "The amateur scientist. How to cultivate the slime molds and perform experiments on them." Scientific Am. 214 (Jan.): 116-121.
	
Snyder III, H. M. and C. Ceccarini (1966). "Interspecific spore inhibition in the cellular slime moulds." Nature 209: 1152.
	
Shaffer, B. M. (1966). "Inhibition of aggregation of the slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum by a factor diffusing from Escherichia coli." J. Cell Sci. 1: 391-400.
	
Roth, R. and M. Sussman (1966). "Trehalose synthesis in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 122: 225-231.
	
Rosen, O. M. (1966). "Purification and properties of fructose 1,6-diphosphatase from Polysphondylium pallidum." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 114: 31-37.
	
Reinhardt, D. J. (1966). Studies on the mycetozoa: a. Light and the development of Acrasis rosea. b. Echinosteliopsis, a new genus of the mycetozoa. New York, NY, Columbia University: 108.
	
Reinhardt, D. J. (1966). "The social amoebae (cellular slime molds)." Turtox News 44: 50-56.
	
Reinhardt, D. J. (1966). "Silica gel as a preserving agent for the cellular slime mold Acrasis rosea." J. Protozool. 13: 225-226.
	
Pannbacker, R. G. and B. E. Wright (1966). "The effect of actinomycin D on development in the cellular slime mold." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 24: 334-339.
	
Pannbacker, R. G. (1966). Nucleotide pool and RNA levels during development in Dictyostelium discoideum. Bacteriol. Proc.
	
Pannbacker, R. G. (1966). "RNA metabolism during differentiation in the cellular slime mold." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 24: 340-345.
	
Mitchell (1966). Showed that ethionine in lower concentrations (<10mM?) had the effect of producing fruiting bodies with disproportionately large stalks. Oberlin, OH, Oberlin College, Ohio.
	
Loomis Jr., W. and M. Sussman (1966). "Commitment to the synthesis of a specific enzyme during cellular slime mold development." J. Mol. Biol. 22: 401-404.
	
Konijn, T. M. and K. B. Raper (1966). "The influence of light on the size of aggregations in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biol. Bull. 131: 446-456.
	
Gregg, J. H. (1966). Organization and synthesis in the cellular slime molds. The Fungi, an advanced treatise. The fungal organism. G. C. Ainsworth and A. S. Sussman. New York, Ac. Press: 235-281.
	
Goldstone, E. M., et al. (1966). "Minimal defined media for vegetative growth of the acrasian Polysphondylium pallidum WS-320." J. Protozool. 13: 171-174.
	
Gezelius, K. (1966). "Acid phosphatase in Dictyostelium discoideum." Physiologia Plantarum 19: 946-959.
	
Gerisch, G., et al. (1966). "Rhythmik der Zellorientierung und der Bewegungsgeschwindigkeit in chemotaktischen Reaktionssystem von Dictyostelium discoideum." Naturwiss. 23: 618.
	
Gerisch, G. (1966). "Die Bildung des Zellverbandes bei Dictyostelium minutum. II. Mitteilung analyse der Zentrengrundung an Hand von Filmaufnahmen." W.R. Arch. Entw. Mech. 157: 174-189.
	
Fuller, M. S. and R. M. Rakatansky (1966). "A preliminary study of the carotenoids in Acrasis rosea." Can. J. Bot. 44: 269-274.
	
Fukui, Y. (1966). Mutagenesis of drug resistants and isolation of genetic recombinants in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum (in Japanese). Osaka, Osaka Univ.
	
Cotter, D. A. and K. B. Raper (1966). "Spore germination in Dictyostelium discoideum." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 56: 880-887.
	
Ceccarini, C. (1966). "Trehalase from Dictyostelium discoideum: purification and properties." Science 151: 454-456.
	
Ceccarini, C. (1966). The biochemical relationship between trehalase and trehalose during growth and differentiation in the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum. Princeton, NJ, Princeton Univ.: 86.
	
Bonner, J. T., et al. (1966). "A new approach to the problem of aggregation in the cellular slime molds." Biol. Bull. 130: 28-42.
	
Ashworth, J. (1966). "Studies on the ribosomes of the cellular slime mold." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 129: 211-213.
	
Weinkauff, A. M. and M. F. Filosa (1965). "Factors involved in the formation of macrocysts by the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium mucoroides." Can. J. Microbiol. 11: 385-387.
	
Ward, C. and B. E. Wright (1965). "Cell wall synthesis in Dictyostelium discoideum. 1. In vitro synthesis from uridine diphosphoglucose." Biochemistry 4: 2021-2027.
	
Takeuchi, I. and T. Sato (1965). "Cell differentiation and cell sorting in the development of the cellular slime moulds. II. Reconstitution of the migrating slug by separate cells." Jap. J. Exp. Morphol. 19: 67-70.
	
Sussman, M. and R. Sussman (1965). "The regulatory program for UDPgalactose polysaccharide transferase activity during slime mold cytodifferentiation: requirement for specific synthesis of ribonucleic acid." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 108: 463-473.
	
Sussman, M. and N. Lovgren (1965). "Preferential release of the enzyme UDP-galactose polysaccharide transferase during cellular differentiation in the slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Cell Res. 38: 97-105.
	
Sussman, M. (1965). "Developmental phenomena in microorganisms and in higher forms of life." Annu. Rev. Microbiol. 19: 59-78.
	
Sussman, M. (1965). "Inhibition by actidione of protein synthesis and UDP-Gal polysaccharide transferase accumulation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 18: 763-767.
	
Sussman, M. (1965). "Temporal, spatial, and quantitative control of enzyme activity during slime mold cytodifferentiation." Brookhaven Symposia in Biology 18: 66-76.
	
Sonneborn, D., et al. (1965). "Serological analyses of cellular slime mold development II. Preferential loss, during morphogenesis, of antigenic activity associated with the vegetative myxamoebae." J. Bacteriol. 84: 1092-1096.
	
Shaffer, B. M. (1965). "Mechanical control of the manufacture and resorption of cell surface in collective amoebae." J. Theor. Biol. 8: 27-40.
	
Shaffer, B. M. (1965). "Antistrophic pseudopodia of the collective amoeba Polysphondylium violaceum." Exp. Cell Res. 37: 79-92.
	
Shaffer, B. M. (1965). "Cell movement within aggregates of the slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum revealed by surface markers." J. Embryol. Exp. Morphol. 13: 97-117.
	
Shaffer, B. M. (1965). "Pseudopodia and intracytoplasmic displacements of the collective amoebae Dictyosteliidae." Exp. Cell Res. 37: 12-25.
	
Rosen, O., et al. (1965). "Fate of the cell wall of Salmonella typhimurium upon ingestion by the cellular slime mold: Polysphondylium pallidum." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 18: 270-276.
	
Olive, L. S. (1965). "A developmental study of Guttulinopsis vulgaris (Acrasiales)." Am. J. Bot. 52: 513-519.
	
Krivanek, J. O. and R. C. Krivanek (1965). "Evidence for transaminase activity in the slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum Raper." Biol. Bull. 129: 295-302.
	
Krichevsky, M. J. and L. L. Love (1965). "Efflux of macromolecules from washed Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 41: 367-374.
	
Konijn, T. M. and K. B. Raper (1965). "The influence of light on the time of cell aggregation in the Dictyosteliaceae." Biol. Bull. 128: 392-400.
	
Konijn, T. M. (1965). "Chemotaxis in the cellular slime molds. I. The effect of temperature." Dev. Biol. 12: 487-497.
	
Hohl, H. R. (1965). "Nature and development of membrane systems in food vacuoles of cellular slime molds predatory upon bacteria." J. Bacteriol. 90: 755-765.
	
Gregg, J. H. (1965). "Regulation in the cellular slime molds." Dev. Biol. 12: 377-393.
	
Gezelius, K. and B. E. Wright (1965). "Alkaline phosphatase in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 38: 309-327.
	
Gerisch, G. (1965). "Dictyostelium purpureum (Acrasina). Vermehrungsphase." Publikat. Wissensch. Filmen 1: 237-244.
	
Gerisch, G. (1965). "Dictyostelium purpureum (Acrasina). Aggregation and Bildung des Sporophors." Publikat. Wissensch. Filmen 1: 245-254.
	
Gerisch, G. (1965). "Dictyostelium minutum (Acrasina). Aggregation." Publikat. Wissensch. Filmen 1: 265-278.
	
Gerisch, G. (1965). "Eine Mutante von Dictyostelium minutum mit blockierter Zentren grundung." Z. Naturforsch. 20: 298-301.
	
Gerisch, G. (1965). "Stadienspezifische Aggregationmuster bei Dictyostelium discoideum." W.R. Arch. Entw. Mech. 156: 127-144.
	
Gerisch, G. (1965). "Dictyostelium discoideum (Acrasina). Aggregation und Bildung des Sporophors." Publik. Wissensch. Filmen 1: 255-264.
	
Gerisch, G. (1965). "Spezifische Zellkontakte als Mechanismen der tierischen Entwicklung." Umschau 13: 392-395.
	
Francis, D. (1965). "Acrasin and the development of Polysphondylium pallidum." Dev. Biol. 12: 329-346.
	
Dogma Jr, I. J. and R. C. Blancaver (1965). "Cellular slime molds from Philippine soil." Philipp. Phytopathol. 1: 41-52.
	
Cohen, A. L. (1965). "Slime molds." Encycl. Brittannica 20: 797-798.
	
Ceccarini, C. and M. Filosa (1965). "Carbohydrate content during development of the slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell. Compar. Physiol. 66: 135-140.
	
Cavender, J. C. and K. B. Raper (1965). "The Acrasieae in nature. III. Occurrence and distribution in forests of eastern North America." Am. J. Bot. 52: 302-308.
	
Cavender, J. C. and K. B. Raper (1965). "The Acrasieae in nature. II. Forest soil as a primary habitat." Am. J. Bot. 52: 297-302.
	
Cavender, J. C. and K. B. Raper (1965). "The Acrasieae in nature. I. Isolation." Am. J. Bot. 52: 294-296.
	
Bonner, J. T. and F. E. Whitfield (1965). "The relation of sorocarp size to phototaxis in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium purpureum." Biol. Bull. 128: 51-57.
	
Bonner, J. T. (1965). Size and cycle. An essay on the structure of biology. Princeton, NJ, Princeton Univ. Press.
	
Bonner, J. T. (1965). Physiology of development in cellular slime molds (Acrasiales). Encyclopedia of plant physiology. Differentiation and development. W. Ruhland. Berlin, Springer-Verlag. XV, part 1: 612-640.
	
Wright, B. E. and M. E. Wassarman (1964). "Pyridine nucleotide levels in Dictyostelium discoideum during differentiation." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 90: 423-424.
	
Wright, B. E., et al. (1964). "Studies in vivo on hexose metabolism in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 9: 287-297.
	
Wright, B. E. and M. Bruhmuller (1964). "The effect of exogenous glucose concentration of C-6/C-1 ratio." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 82: 203-204.
	
Wright, B. E. (1964). The biochemistry of morphogenesis. Comparative Biochemistry. A comprehensive treatise. Vol. VI. Cells and organisms. M. Florkin and H. S. Mason. New York, Ac. Press: 1-71.
	
Wright, B. E. (1964). Biochemistry of Acrasiales. Biochemistry and Physiology of Protozoa. S. H. Hutner. New York, Ac. Press: 341-381.
	
Wright, B. and C. Ward (1964). Cellulose synthesis in Dictyostelium discoideum. Bacteriol. Proc.
	
Whitfield, F. E. (1964). "The use of proteolytic and other enzymes in the separation of slime mould grex." Exp. Cell Res. 36: 62-72.
	
Sussman, M. and M. J. Osborn (1964). "UDP-galactose polysaccharide transferase in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum: appearance and disappearance of activity during cell differentiation." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 52: 81-87.
	
Sussman, M. (1964). Timed appearance, release, and disappearance of UDP-galactosyl transglycosylase activity during slime mold morphogenesis. Bacteriol. Proc.
	
Sussman, M. (1964). Growth and Development. Second edition. (Foundations of modern biology series). Englewood-Cliffs, Prentice-Hall.
	
Sussman, M. (1964). "Isolation of diploid strains of Dictyostelium discoideum from haploid population." Nature 201: 216.
	
Staples, S. O. (1964). The formation and properties of a pigment in the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum. Gainesville, FL, Univ. Florida.
	
Sonneborn, D., et al. (1964). "Serological analyses of cellular slime mold development. 1. Changes in antigenic activity during cell aggregation." J. Bacteriol. 87: 1321-1329.
	
Solomon, E. P., et al. (1964). "Multiple forms of enzymes in a cellular slime mold during morphogenesis." Dev. Biol. 9: 314-326.
	
Shaffer, B. M. (1964). "The Acrasina." Adv. Morphogenesis 3: 301-322.
	
Shaffer, B. M. (1964). "Attraction through air exerted by unaggregated cells on aggregates of the slime mould Polysphondylium violaceum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 36: 359-364.
	
Shaffer, B. M. (1964). Intracellular movement and locomotion of cellular slime-mold amoebae. Primitive motile systems in cell biology. R. D. Allen and N. Kamiya. New York, Ac. Press: 387-405.
	
Phillips, W. D., et al. (1964). "The isolation and identification of polyribosomes from cellular slime molds." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 80: 508-510.
	
Krivanek, J. O. (1964). Nucleic acids in the developing slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum. Bull. Assoc. S.E. Biologists.
	
Krichevsky, M. R. and L. L. Love (1964). "Adenine inhibition of the rate of sorocarp formation in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 37: 293-295.
	
Krichevsky, M. I. and L. L. Love (1964). "The uptake and utilization of histidine by washed amoebae in the course of development in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 34: 483-490.
	
Kahn, A. J. (1964). Some aspects of cell interaction in the development of the slime mold, Dictyostelium purpureum. New York, NY, Columbia University.
	
Kahn, A. J. (1964). "The influence of light on cell aggregation in Polysphondylium pallidum." Biol. Bull. 127: 85-96.
	
Kahn, A. J. (1964). "Some aspects of cell interactions in the development of the slime mold Dictyostelium purpureum." Dev. Biol. 9: 1-19.
	
Huffman, D. M. and L. S. Olive (1964). "Engulfment and anastomosis in the cellular slime molds (Acrasiales)." Am. J. Bot. 51: 465-471.
	
Hohl, H. R. and K. B. Raper (1964). "Control of sorocarp size in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 9: 137-153.
	
Hirschy, R. and K. Raper (1964). Light control of macrocyst formation in Dictyostelium. Bacteriol. Proc.
	
Gregg, J. (1964). "Developmental processes in cellular slime molds." Physiol. Rev. 44: 631-656.
	
Gerisch, G. (1964). "Entwicklung von Dictyostelium." Publikationen zu wissenschaftlichen Filmen Ia: 127-140.
	
Gerisch, G. (1964). "Die Bildung des Zellverbandes bei Dictyostelium minutum. I. Ubersicht uber die Aggregation und den Funktionswechsel der Zellen." W.R. Arch. Entw. Mech. 155: 342-357.
	
Francis, D. W. (1964). "Some studies on phototaxis of Dictyostelium." J. Cell. Compar. Physiol. 64: 131-138.
	
Davidoff, F. and E. D. Korn (1964). "The conversion of long chain saturated fatty acids to their alpha,beta-unsaturated, beta,gamma-unsaturated and beta-hydroxy derivatives by enzymes from the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 239: 2496-2506.
	
Davidoff, F. (1964). "The metabolism of 9(10)-hydroxystearic acid by the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 90: 414-416.
	
Ceccarini, C. and M. Filosa (1964). Carbohydrate content during development of Dictyostelium discoideum. Bacteriol. Proc.
	
Banerjee, S. D., et al. (1964). Subculture of the acrasian Polysphondylium pallidum WS-320 on defined medium. J. Protozool.
	
Wright, B. E. and M. Bruhmuller (1963). Studies on carbohydrate metabolism during differentiation in a slime mold. Fed. Proc.
	
Wright, B. E. and S. Bard (1963). "Glutamate oxidation in the differentiating slime mold. I. Studies in vivo." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 71: 45-49.
	
Wright, B. E. (1963). "Endogenous activity and sporulation in slime molds." Ann. NY Acad. Sci. 102: 740-754.
	
Wright, B. (1963). "Endogenous substrate control in biochemical differentiation." Bacteriol. Rev. 27: 273-281.
	
White, G. J. and M. Sussman (1963). "Polysaccharides involved in slime-mold development. II. Water-soluble acid mucopolysaccharide(s)." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 74: 179-187.
	
White, G. J. and M. Sussman (1963). "Polysaccharides involved in slime-mold development. I. Water-soluble glucose polymer(s)." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 74: 173-178.
	
Takeuchi, I. (1963). "Immunochemical and immunohistochemical studies on the development of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium mucoroides." Dev. Biol. 8: 1-26.
	
Sussman, R. R. and M. Sussman (1963). "Ploidal inheritance in the slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum: Haploidization and genetic segregation of diploid strains." J. Gen. Microbiol. 30: 349-355.
	
Sussman, M. (1963). "Growth of the cellular slime mold Polysphondylium pallidum in a simple nutrient medium." Science 139: 338.
	
Sonneborn, D. R., et al. (1963). "A mutation affecting both rate and pattern of morphogenesis in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 7: 79-93.
	
Shaffer, B. M. (1963). "Inhibition by existing aggregations of founder differentiation in the cellular slime mould Polysphondylium violaceum." Exp. Cell Res. 31: 432-435.
	
Shaffer, B. M. (1963). "Behaviour of particles adhering to amoebae of the slime mold Polysphondylium violaceum and the fate of the cell surface during locomotion." Exp. Cell Res. 32: 603-606.
	
Rai, J. N. and J. P. Tewari (1963). "Studies in cellular slime moulds from Indian soils. III. On the occurrence of two strains of Dictyostelium mucoroides complex, conforming to the species Dictyostelium sphaerocephalum (Oud). Saccardo and March." Proc. Indian Acad. Sci. 58: 263-266.
	
Rai, J. N. and J. P. Tewari (1963). "Studies in cellular slime moulds from Indian soils. II. On the occurrence of an aberrant strain of Polysphondylium violaceum Bref with a discussion on the relevance of mode of branching of the sorocarp as a criterion for classifying members of Dictyosteliaceae." Proc. Idian Acad. Sci. 58: 201-206.
	
Olive, L. (1963). "The question of sexuality in cellular slime molds." Bull. Torrey Bot. Club 90: 144-147.
	
Krichevsky, M. I. and B. E. Wright (1963). "Environmental control of the course of development in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 32: 195-207.
	
Huffman, D. M. and L. S. Olive (1963). "A significant morphogenetic variant of Dictyostelium mucoroides." Mycologia 55: 337-341.
	
Hohl, H. R. and K. B. Raper (1963). Sorocarp formation by Dictyostelium discoideum in crowded populations. Bacteriol. Proc.
	
Hohl, H. R. and K. B. Raper (1963). "Nutrition of cellular slime molds. II. Growth of Polysphondylium pallidum in axenic culture." J. Bacteriol. 85: 199-206.
	
Hohl, H. R. and K. B. Raper (1963). "Nutrition of cellular slime molds. I. Growth on living and dead bacteria." J. Bacteriol. 85: 191-198.
	
Hohl, H. R. and K. Raper (1963). "Nutrition of cellular slime molds III. Specific growth requirements of Polysphondylium pallidum." J. Bacteriol. 86: 1314-1319.
	
Hirschy, R. A. (1963). The macrocyst of Dictyostelium purpureum. Madison, Univ. Wisconsin: 61.
	
Gezelius, K. and B. E. Wright (1963). Alkaline phosphatase and inorganic phosphate in Dictyostelium discoideum. Bacteriol. Proc.
	
Gerisch, G. (1963). "Eine fur Dictyostelium ungewohnliche Aggregationsweise." Naturwissensch. 50: 160.
	
Davidoff, F. and E. D. Korn (1963). "The biosynthesis of fatty acids in the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Biol. Chem. 238: 3210-3215.
	
Davidoff, F. and E. D. Korn (1963). "Fatty acid and phospholipid composition of the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum.  The occurrence of previously undescribed fatty acids." J. Biol. Chem. 238: 3199-3209.
	
Coemans, E. (1963). "Recherches sur le polymorphisme et les differents appareils de reproduction chez les mucorinees - Deuxiemes parties." Bull. Acad. Roy. Belg. 16: 177-199.
	
Bruhmuller, M. and B. E. Wright (1963). "Glutamate oxidation in the differentiating slime mold. II. Studies in vitro." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 71: 50-57.
	
Bonner, J. T. and M. E. Hoffman (1963). "Evidence for a substance responsible for the spacing pattern of aggregation and fruiting in the cellular slime molds." J. Embryol. Exp. Morphol. 11: 571-589.
	
Bonner, J. T. (1963). "How slime molds communicate." Scientific Am. 209 (Aug.): 84-93.
	
Bonner, J. T. (1963). "Epigenetic development in the cellular slime moulds." Symp. Soc. Exp. Biol. XVII: 341-358.
	
Allen, J. R., et al. (1963). Culture of the acrasiales Polysphondylium pallidum WS-320 in defined media. J. Protozool.
	
White, G. J. (1962). Biochemical events accompanying cellular slime mold development. Waltham, MA, Brandeis Univ.: 145.
	
Weitzman, I. (1962). "Studies on the nutrition of Acrasis rosea." Mycologia 54: 113-115.
	
Sussman, M. and R. R. Sussman (1962). "Ploidal inheritance in Dictyostelium discoideum: stable haploid, stable diploid and metastable strains." J. Gen. Microbiol. 28: 417-429.
	
Sonneborn, D. R. (1962). Immunological analysis of the development of the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum. Waltham, MA, Brandeis Univ.: 201.
	
Shaffer, B. M. (1962). "The Acrasina." Adv. Morphogenesis 2: 109-182.
	
Schildkraut, C. L., et al. (1962). "Determination of the base composition of deoxyribonucleic acid from its buoyant density in CsCl." J. Mol. Biol. 4: 430-443.
	
Schildkraut, C. L., et al. (1962). "Deoxyribonucleic acid base composition and taxonomy of some Protozoa." Nature 196: 795-796.
	
Raper, K. B. (1962). "The environment and morphogenesis in cellular slime molds." Harvey Lect. 57: 111-141.
	
Rafaeli, D. C. (1962). "Studies on mixed morphological mutants of Polysphondylium violaceum." Bull. Torrey Bot. Club 89: 312-318.
	
Krivanek, J. O. and R. C. Krivanek (1962). Evidence for the occurrence of transamination in the developing slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum. Am. Zool.
	
Krichevsky, M. I. and B. Wright (1962). The effect of environmental factors on the rate of morphogenesis in the cellular slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum. VIII Int. Congress Microbiol.
	
Johnson, D. F., et al. (1962). "Biogenesis of delta22-stigmasten-3beta-ol in Dictyostelium discoideum." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 97: 232-235.
	
Huffman, D. M., et al. (1962). "Anastomosis and cell fusions in Dictyostelium." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 48: 1160-1164.
	
Gezelius, K. (1962). "Growth of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum on dead bacteria in liquid media." Physiologia Plantarum 15: 587-592.
	
Gerisch, G. (1962). "Die zellularen Schleimpilze als Objekte der Entwicklungsphysiologie." Ber. Deut Bot. Gesell. 75: 82-89.
	
Gerisch, G. (1962). "Zellfunktionen und Zellfunktionswechsel in der Entwicklung von Dictyostelium discoideum. VI. Inhibitoren der Aggregation, Ihr einfluss auf Zellkontaktbildung und morphogenetische Bewegung." Exp. Cell Res. 26: 462-484.
	
Gerisch, G. (1962). "Zellfunktionen und Zellfunktionwechsel in der Entwicklung von Dictyostelium discoideum. IV. Der Zeitplan der Entwicklung." W.R. Arch. Entw. Mech. 153: 603-620.
	
Francis, D. W. (1962). The movement of pseudoplasmodia of Dictyostelium discoideum. Madison, WI, Univ. Wisconsin: 145.
	
Filosa, M. F. (1962). "Heterocytosis in cellular slime molds." Am. Naturalist XCVI (no. 887): 79-92.
	
Davidoff, F. and E. D. Korn (1962). "Further studies on the biosynthesis of fatty acids in the cellular slime molds." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 9: 328-333.
	
Davidoff, F. and E. D. Korn (1962). "Lipids of Dictyostelium discoideum: phospholipid composition and the presence of two new fatty acids: cis,cis-5,11-octadecadienoic and cis,cis-5,9-hexadecadienoic acids." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 9: 54-58.
	
Davidoff, F. and E. D. Korn (1962). "Synthesis of unsaturated fatty acids in the cellular slime mold." Biochem. Biophys. Res. Commun. 9: 44-48.
	
Bonner, J. T. and M. R. Dodd (1962). "Aggregation territories in the cellular slime molds." Biol. Bull. 122: 13-24.
	
Bonner, J. T. and M. R. Dodd (1962). "Evidence for gas-induced orientation in the cellular slime molds." Dev. Biol. 5: 344-361.
	
Wright, B. E. and B. Bloom (1961). "In vivo evidence for metabolic shifts in the differentiating slime mold." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 48: 342-346.
	
White, G. J. and M. Sussman (1961). "Metabolism of major cell components during slime mold morphogenesis." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 53: 285-293.
	
Sussman, R. R. (1961). "A method for staining the chromosomes of Dictyostelium discoideum myxamoebae in the vegetative stage." Exp. Cell Res. 24: 154-155.
	
Sussman, M. and R. R. Sussman (1961). Haploidization of diploid strains of Dictyostelium discoideum. Bacteriol. Proc.
	
Sussman, M. and R. R. Sussman (1961). "Aggregative performance." Exp. Cell Res. 8 (suppl.): 91-106.
	
Sussman, M. (1961). Cellular differentiation in the slime mold. Growth in living systems. M. X. Zarrow. New York, Basic Books: 221-239.
	
Sussman, M. (1961). "Cultivation and serial transfer of the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum in liquid nutrient medium." J. Gen. Microbiol. 25: 375-378.
	
Sonneborn, D. R., et al. (1961). An antigenic change during slime mold development. Bacteriol. Proc.
	
Shaffer, B. M. (1961). Aggregation in the Dictyosteliaceae. Recent advances in botany. (Proc. 9th Int. Bot Congress; 1959; Montreal).
	
Shaffer, B. M. (1961). "The cells founding aggregation centres in the slime mould Polysphondylium violaceum." J. Exp. Biol. 38: 833-849.
	
Shaffer, B. M. (1961). Species differences in the aggregation of the Acrasieae. Recent Advances in Botany. U. T. P. Staff. Toronto, Univ. Toronto Press: 294-298.
	
Samuel, E. W. (1961). "Orientation and rate of locomotion of individual amebas in the life cycle of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium mucoroides." Dev. Biol. 3: 317-335.
	
Rai, J. N. and J. P. Tewari (1961). "Studies in cellular slime moulds from Indian soils. I. On the occurrence of Dictyostelium mucoroides Bref. and Polysphondylium violaceum." Proc. Indian Acad. Sci. 53: 1-9.
	
Opderbeck, C. T. (1961). The effect of histidine on aggregation in Dictyostelium purpureum. Princeton, NJ, Princeton Univ.
	
Olive, L., et al. (1961). "Variation in the cellular slime mold Acrasis rosea." J. Protozool. 8: 467-472.
	
Liddel, G. U. and B. E. Wright (1961). Respiration of D. discoideum during differentiation. Bacteriol. Proc.
	
Liddel, G. and B. Wright (1961). "The effect of glucose on respiration of the differentiating slime mold." Dev. Biol. 3: 265-276.
	
Krichevsky, M. I. and B. E. Wright (1961). The effect of environmental factors on morphogenesis and protein synthesis in Dictyostelium discoideum. Bacteriol. Proc.
	
Konijn, T. M. and K. B. Raper (1961). "Cell aggregation in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 3: 725-756.
	
Konijn, T. M. (1961). Cell aggregation in Dictyostelium discoideum. Madison, WI, Univ. Wisconsin: 195.
	
Gregg, J. H. (1961). "An immunoelectrophoretic study of the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 3: 757-766.
	
Gezelius, K. (1961). "Further studies in the ultrastructure of Acrasiae." Exp. Cell Res. 23: 300-310.
	
Gerisch, G. (1961). "Zellkontaktbildung vegetativer und aggregationsreifer Zellen von Dictyostelium discoideum." Naturwissensch. 48: 436-437.
	
Gerisch, G. (1961). "Zellfunktionen und Zellfunktionswechsel in der Entwicklung von Dictyostelium discoideum. V. Stadienspezifische Zellkontaktbildung und ihre quantitative Erfassung." Exp. Cell Res. 25: 535-554.
	
Gerisch, G. (1961). "Zellfunktionen un Zellfunktionwechsel in der Entwicklung von Dictyostelium discoideum. III. Getrennte Beeinflussung von Zelldifferenzierung und Morphogenese." W.R. Arch. Entw. Mech. 153: 158-167.
	
Gerisch, G. (1961). "Zellfunktionen und Zellfunktionwechsel in der Entwicklung von Dictyostelium discoideum. II. Aggregation homogener Zellpopulationen und Zentrenbildung." Dev. Biol. 3: 685-724.
	
Dutta, S. K. and E. D. Garber (1961). "The identification of physiological races of a fungal phytopathogen using strains of the slime mold Acrasis rosea." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 47: 990-993.
	
Clegg, J. S. and M. F. Filosa (1961). "Trehalose in the cellular slime mould Dictyostelium mucoroides." Nature 192: 1077-1078.
	
Wright, B. E. and B. Bloom (1960). In vivo investigations of glucose metabolism in a differentiating slime mold. Bacteriol. Proc.
	
Wright, B. E. and M. L. Anderson (1960). "Protein and amino acid turnover during differentiation in the slime mold. II. Incorporation of 35S-methionine into the amino acid pool and into protein." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 43: 67-78.
	
Wright, B. E. and M. L. Anderson (1960). "Protein and amino acid turnover during differentiation in the slime mold. I. Utilization of endogenous amino acids and proteins." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 43: 62-66.
	
Wright, B. E. (1960). "On enzyme-substrate relationships during biochemical differentiation." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 46: 798-803.
	
Whittingham, W. F. and K. B. Raper (1960). "Non-viability of stalk cells in Dictyostelium." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 46: 642-649.
	
Takeuchi, I. (1960). A biochemical study of development of the cellular slime mold. Princeton, NJ, Princeton University: 67.
	
Takeuchi, I. (1960). "The correlation of cellular changes with succinic dehydrogenase and cytochrome oxidase activities in the development of the cellular slime molds." Dev. Biol. 2: 343-366.
	
Sussman, R. R., et al. (1960). "The appearance and inheritance of the I-cell phenotype in Dictyostelium discoideum." Dev. Biol. 2: 367-392.
	
Sussman, R. R. and M. Sussman (1960). "The dissociation of morphogenesis from cell division in the cellular slime mould, Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 23: 287-293.
	
Sussman, M. (1960). Animal growth and development. Englewood Cliffs, NJ, Prentice-Hall.
	
Samuel, E. W. (1960). Orientation and rate of locomotion of individual amoebae in the life cycle of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium mucoroides. Princeton, NJ, Princeton University: 44.
	
Russell, G. K. and J. T. Bonner (1960). "A note on spore germination in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium mucoroides." Bull. Torrey Bot. Club 87: 187-191.
	
Ross, I. K. (1960). "Studies on diploid strains of Dictyostelium discoideum." Am. J. Bot. 47: 54-59.
	
Raper, K. B. (1960). Acrasiales. McGraw-Hill Encyclopedia of Science and Technology. New York, McGraw-Hill: 49-50.
	
Raper, k. B. (1960). "Levels of cellular interaction in amoeboid populations." Proc. Am. Phil. Soc. 104: 579-604.
	
Rai, J. N. and J. P. Tewari (1960). "Some new records in Indian soil fungi." Curr. Sci. 29: 400.
	
Olive, L. S. and C. Stoianovitch (1960). "Two new members of the Acrasiales." Bull. Torrey Bot. Club 87: 1-20.
	
Olive, L. S. (1960). "Acrasiales of the West Indies." Mycologia 52: 819-822.
	
Mercer, E. H. and B. M. Shaffer (1960). "Electron microscopy of solitary and aggregated slime mould cells." J. Biophys. Biochem. Cytol. 7: 353-356.
	
Kessler, D. and K. B. Raper (1960). Guttulina, a rediscovered genus of cellular slime mold. Bacteriol. Proc.
	
Hostak, M. B. and K. B. Raper (1960). The induction of cell aggregation in Acytostelium by alkaloids. Bacteriol. Proc.
	
Hostak, M. (1960). Induced aggregation of myxamoebae in Acytostelium. Madison, Univ. Wisconsin: 59.
	
Heftmann, E., et al. (1960). "The isolation of delta22-stigmasten-3beta-ol from Dictyostelium discoideum." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 91: 266-270.
	
Gregg, J. H. (1960). "Surface antigen dynamics in the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Biol. Bull. 118: 70-78.
	
Gerisch, G. (1960). "Zellfunktionen und Zellfunktionwechsel in der Entwicklung von Dictyostelium discoideum. I. Zellagglutination und Induktion der Fruchtkorperpolaritat." W.R. Arch. Entw. Mech. 152: 632-654.
	
Filosa, M. (1960). The effects of ethionine on the morphogenesis of cellular slime molds. Anat. Record.
	
Bonner, J. T. (1960). Development in the cellular slime molds: The role of cell division, cell size, and cell number. Developing cell systems and their control. D. Rudnick. New York, Ronald Press: 3-20.
	
Wright, B. E. and M. L. Anderson (1959). Protein and amino acid behavior during differentiation in the slime mold. Fed. Proc.
	
Wright, B. E. and M. L. Anderson (1959). "Biochemical differentiation in the slime mold." Biochim. Biophys. Acta 31: 310-322.
	
Sussman, M. and H. L. Ennis (1959). "The role of the initiator cell in slime mold aggregation." Biol. Bull. 116: 304-317.
	
Rorke, J. and G. Rosenthal (1959). Influences on the spatial arragements of Dictyostelium discoideum. Princeton, NJ, Princeton Univ.
	
Krivanek, J. O. and R. C. Krivanek (1959). "Chromatographic analyses of amino acids in the developing slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum Raper." Biol. Bull. 116: 265-271.
	
Heftmann, E., et al. (1959). "Identification of a sterol with acrasin activity in a slime mold. (Communication to the editor)." J. Am. Chem. Soc. 81: 6525-6526.
	
Gezelius, K. (1959). "The ultrastructure of cells and cellulose membranes in Acrasiae." Exp. Cell Res. 18: 425-453.
	
Gerisch, G. (1959). "Ein Submerskulturverfahren fur entwicklungsphysiologische Untersuchungen an Dictyostelium discoideum." Naturwissenschaften 46: 654-656.
	
Faust, R. G. and M. F. Filosa (1959). "Permeability studies on the amoebae of the slime mold, Dictyostelium mucoroides." J. Cell. Compar. Physiol. 54: 297-298.
	
DeHaan, R. L. (1959). "The effects of the chelating agent ethylene diamine tetra-acetic acid on cell adhesion in the slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Embryol. Exp. Morphol. 7: 335-343.
	
Bonner, J. T. (1959). "Differentiation in social amoebae." Scientific Am. 201 (Dec.): 152-162.
	
Bonner, J. T. (1959). "Evidence for the sorting out of cells in the development of the cellular slime mold." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 45: 379-384.
	
Bonner, J. T. (1959). The cellular slime molds. Princeton, NJ, Princeton Univ. Press.
	
Wright, B. E. and M. L. Anderson (1958). Enzyme patterns during differentiation in the slime mold. A symposium on the chemical basis of development. W. D. McElroy and B. Glass. Baltimore, Johns Hopkins Press: 296-314.
	
Wright, B. E. (1958). Effect of steroids on aggregation in the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. Bacteriol. Proc.
	
Sussman, R. R., et al. (1958). The chemotactic complex responsible for cellular slime mold aggregation. Bacteriol. Proc.
	
Sussman, M. (1958). A developmental analysis of cellular slime mold aggregation. The chemical basis of development. W. D. Mc Elroy and B. Glass. Baltimore, Johns Hopkins Press: 264-295.
	
Slifkin, M. K. and H. S. Gutowsky (1958). "Infrared spectroscopy as a new method for assessing the nutritional requirements of the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell. Compar. Physiol. 51: 249-257.
	
Shaffer, B. M. (1958). "Integration in aggregating cellular slime moulds." Quart. J. Microsc. Sci. 99: 103-121.
	
Raper, K. B. and M. S. Quinlan (1958). "Acytostelium leptosomum: A unique cellular slime mould with an acellular stalk." J. Gen. Microbiol. 18: 16-32.
	
Krivanek, J. O. and R. C. Krivanek (1958). "The histochemical localization of certain biochemical intermediates and enzymes in the developing slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum Raper." J. Exp. Zool. 137: 89-115.
	
Gregg, J. H. and C. W. Trygstad (1958). "Surface antigen defects contributing to developmental failure in aggregateless variants of the slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Cell Res. 15: 358-369.
	
Filosa, M. F. (1958). Heterocytosis in cellular slime molds. Princeton, NJ, Princeton Univ.: 37.
	
Ennis, H. L. and M. Sussman (1958). "Synergistic morphogenesis by mixtures of Dictyostelium discoideum wild-type and aggregateless mutants." J. Gen. Microbiol. 18: 433-449.
	
Ennis, H. L. and M. Sussman (1958). "The initiator cell for slime mold aggregation." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 44: 401-411.
	
Bonner, J. T. and M. S. Adams (1958). "Cell mixtures of different species and strains of cellular slime moulds." J. Embryol. Exp. Morphol. 6: 346-356.
	
Bonner, J. T. (1958). "The relation of spore formation to recombination." Am. Naturalist XCII: 193-200.
	
Wilson, C. M. and I. K. Ross (1957). "Further cytological studies in the Acrasiales." Am. J. Bot. 44: 345-350.
	
Whittingham, W. F. and K. B. Raper (1957). "Environmental factors influencing the growth and fructification of Dictyostelium polycephalum." Am. J. Bot. 44: 619-627.
	
Shaffer, B. M. (1957). "Variability of behaviour of aggregating cellular slime moulds." Quart. J. Microsc. Sci. 98: 393-405.
	
Shaffer, B. M. (1957). "Properties of slime moulds amoebae of significance for aggregation." Quart. J. Microsc. Sci. 98: 377-392.
	
Shaffer, B. M. (1957). "Apects of aggregation in cellular slime moulds. I. Orientation and chemotaxis." Am. Naturalist 91: 19-35.
	
Krivanek, J. O. and R. C. Krivanek (1957). "A method for embedding small specimens." Stain Technol. 32: 300-301.
	
Gregg, J. (1957). "Serological investigation of aggregateless variants of the slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum." Anat. Rec. 128: 558-559.
	
Gezelius, K. and B. G. Ranby (1957). "Morphology and fine structure of the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Exp. Cell Res. 12: 265-289.
	
Ennis, H. L. (1957). A comparative study of the aggregateless mutants of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. Evanston, IL, Northwestern Univ.: 92.
	
Bonner, J. T. and M. J. Shaw (1957). "The role of humidity in the differentiation of the cellular slime molds." J. Cell. Compar. Physiol. 50: 145-153.
	
Bonner, J. T. (1957). "A theory of the control of differentiation in the cellular slime molds." Quart. Rev. Biol. 32: 232-246.
	
Blaskovics, J. C. and K. B. Raper (1957). "Encystment stages of Dictyostelium." Biol. Bull. 113: 58-88.
	
Whittingham, W. F. and K. B. Raper (1956). "Inhibition of normal pigment synthesis in spores of Dictyostelium purpureum." Am. J. Bot. 43: 703-708.
	
Sussman, M. and R. R. Sussman (1956). Cellular interactions during the development of the cellular slime mold. Cellular mechanisms in differentiation and growth. D. Rudnick. Princeton, NJ, Princeton Univ. Press: 125-154.
	
Sussman, M., et al. (1956). "Fractionation of acrasin, a specific chemotactic agent for slime mold aggregation." Science 123: 1171-1172.
	
Sussman, M. (1956). "The biology of the cellular slime molds." Annu. Rev. Microbiol. 10: 21-50.
	
Sussman, M. (1956). "On the relation between growth and morphogenesis in the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Biol. Bull. 110: 91-95.
	
Shaffer, B. M. (1956). "Properties of acrasin." Science 123: 1172-1173.
	
Shaffer, B. M. (1956). "Acrasin, the chemotactic agent in cellular slime moulds." J. Exp. Biol. 33: 645-657.
	
Raper, K. B. (1956). "Factors affecting growth and differentiation in simple slime molds." Mycologia 48: 169-205.
	
Raper, K. B. (1956). "Dictyostelium polycephalum n.sp.: a new cellular slime mould with coremiform fructifications." J. Gen. Microbiol. 14: 716-732.
	
Muhlethaler, K. (1956). "Electron microscopic study of the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Am. J. Bot. 43: 673-678.
	
LaBudde, B. F. (1956). A cytological study of Dictyostelium. Madison, Univ. Wisconsin: 50.
	
Krivanek, J. O. (1956). "Alkaline phosphatase activity in the developing slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum Raper." J. Exp. Zool. 133: 459-479.
	
Kostellow, A. (1956). Developmental response of Dictyostelium discoideum to some amino acids and their analogues. New York, Columbia Univ.
	
Gregg, J. H. and R. D. Bronsweig (1956). "Dry weight loss during culmination of the slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell. Compar. Physiol. 47: 483-488.
	
Gregg, J. H. and R. Bronsweig (1956). "Biochemical events accompanying stalk formation in the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell. Compar. Physiol. 48: 293-300.
	
Gregg, J. H. (1956). "Serological investigations of cell adhesion in the slime molds, Dictyostelium discoideum, Dictyostelium purpureum, and Polysphondylium violaceum." J. Gen. Physiol. 39: 813-820.
	
Bradley, S. G., et al. (1956). "Environmental factors affecting the aggregation of the cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Protozool. 3: 33-38.
	
Borg, A. (1956). A method for estimating numbers of ameboid cells in soil or natural materials. Bacteriol. Proc.
	
Agnihothrudu, V. (1956). "Occurrence of Dictyosteliaceae in the rhizosphere of plants in Southern India." Experientia 12: 149-150.
	
Takeuchi, I. and M. Tazawa (1955). "Studies on the morphogenesis of the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Cytologia 20: 157-165.
	
Sussman, M. and F. Lee (1955). "Interactions among variant and wild-type strains of cellular slime mold across thin agar membranes." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 41: 70-78.
	
Sussman, M. (1955). Developmental physiology of the ameboid slime molds. Biochemistry and physiology of protozoa. S. Hutner and A. Lwoff. New York, Ac. Press: 201-223.
	
Sussman, M. (1955). "'Fruity' and other mutants of the cellular slime mould, Dictyostelium discoideum: a study of developmental aberrations." J. Gen. Microbiol. 13: 295-309.
	
Raper, K. B. (1955). Dictyostelium polycephalum n. sp., a cellular slime mold with coremiform sorocarps. Bacteriol. Proc.
	
Krivanek, J. O. (1955). Alkaline phosphatase activity in the developing slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum, Raper. Gainesville, FL, University of Florida: 60.
	
Hirschberg, E. and G. Merson (1955). Inhibition of aggregation of Dictyostelium discoideum by a series of diaminopyrimidines and dihydrotriazines. J. Protozool.
	
Hirschberg, E. and G. Merson (1955). "Effect of test compounds on the aggregation and culmination of the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Cancer. Res. Suppl. 3: 76-79.
	
Hirschberg, E. (1955). "Some contributions of microbiology to cancer research." Bacteriol. Rev. 19: 65-78.
	
Cormier, J. L. and K. B. Raper (1955). The macrocysts of Dictyostelium. Bacteriol. Proc.
	
Cormier, J. L. (1955). The study of macrocysts in Dictyostelium. Madison, Univ. Wisconsin.
	
Bonner, J. T., et al. (1955). "A histochemical study of differentiation in the cellular slime molds." J. Exp. Zool. 130: 133-158.
	
Sussman, M. and F. Lee (1954). Physiology of developmental variants among the cellular slime molds. Bacteriol. Proc.
	
Sussman, M. and S. G. Bradley (1954). "A protein growth factor of bacterial origin required by the cellular slime mold." Arch. Biophys. Biochem. 51: 428-435.
	
Sussman, M. (1954). "Synergistic and antagonistic interactions between morphogenetically deficient variants of the slime mould Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Gen. Microbiol. 10: 110-120.
	
Gregg, J. H., et al. (1954). "Nitrogen metabolism of the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum during growth and morphogenesis." Biol. Bull. 107: 226-235.
	
Bradley, S. G. and M. Sussman (1954). Physiology of the aggregation stage in the development of the cellular slime molds. Bacteriol. Proc.
	
Bradley, S. G. (1954). Factors affecting the aggregation stage in the development of the cellular slime molds. Chicago, IL, Northwestern University: 48.
	
Wilson, C. M. (1953). "Cytological study of the life cycle of Dictyostelium." Am. J. Bot. 40: 714-718.
	
Sussman, R. R. and M. Sussman (1953). "Cellular differentiation in Dictyosteliaceae: heritable modifications of the developmental pattern." Ann. N. Y. Acad. Sci. 56: 949-960.
	
Sussman, M. (1953). Synergistic interactions between morphologically deficient variants of the slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum. Bacteriol. Proc.
	
Shaffer, B. M. (1953). "Aggregation in cellular slime moulds: in vitro isolation of acrasin." Nature 171: 975.
	
Pavillard, J. (1953). Ordre des Acrasies. Traite de Zoologie. Paris, Masson: 493-505.
	
Paddock, R. B. (1953). "The appearance of amoebae tracks in cultures of Dictyostelium discoideum." Science 118: 597-598.
	
Gamble, W. J. (1953). Orientation of the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum to light. Princeton, NJ, Princeton Univ.
	
Cohen, A. L. (1953). "The isolation and culture of opsimorphic organisms I. Occurrence and isolation of opsimorphic organisms from soil and culture of Acrasieae on a standard medium." Ann. NY Acad. Sci. 56: 938-943.
	
Cohen, A. L. (1953). "The effect of ammonia on morphogenesis in the Acrasieae." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 39: 68-74.
	
Bonner, J. T., et al. (1953). "Size in relation to the rate of migration in the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Mycologia XLV: 235-240.
	
Bonner, J. T. and E. B. Frascella (1953). "Variations in cell size during development of the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Biol. Bull. 104: 297-300.
	
Wilson, C. M. (1952). "Sexuality in the Acrasiales." Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 38: 659-661.
	
Sussman, M. and E. Noel (1952). "An analysis of the aggregation stage in the development of the slime molds, Dictyosteliaceae. I. The populational distribution of the capacity to initiate aggregation." Biol. Bull. 103: 259-268.
	
Sussman, M. (1952). "An analysis of the aggregation stage in the development of the slime molds, Dictyosteliaceae. II. Aggregative center formation by mixtures of Dictyostelium discoideum wild type and aggregateless variants." Biol. Bull. 103: 446-457.
	
Slifkin, M. K. and J. T. Bonner (1952). "The effect of salts and organic solutes on the migration time of the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Biol. Bull. 102: 273-277.
	
Raper, K. B. and D. I. Fennell (1952). "Stalk formation in Dictyostelium." Bull. Torrey Bot. Club 79: 25-51.
	
Lang, A. (1952). "I.5. Entwicklungsphysiologie der Acrasiales." Fortschr. Bot. 15: 433-441.
	
Kitzke, E. D. (1952). "A new method for isolating members of the Acrasieae from soil samples." Nature 170: 284-285.
	
Burkholder, P. R. (1952). "Cooperation and conflict among primitive organisms." Am. Scientist 40: 601-631.
	
Bradley, S. G. and M. Sussman (1952). "Growth of amoeboid slime molds in one-membered cultures." Arch. Biochem. Biophys. 39: 462-463.
	
Bonner, J. T. and E. B. Frascella (1952). "Mitotic activity in relation to differentiation in the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Exp. Zool. 121: 561-571.
	
Bonner, J. T. (1952). Morphogenesis. An essay on development. Princeton, NJ, Princeton Univ. Press.
	
Bonner, J. T. (1952). "The pattern of differentiation in amoeboid slime molds." Am. Naturalist 86: 79-89.
	
Alexopoulos, C. J. (1952). Introductory Mycology. New York, John Wiley & Sons.
	
Zaczynski, E. J. (1951). The effect of anti-serum on the growth and morphogenesis of the slime mold. Nashville, TN, Vanderbilt University.
	
Sussman, M. (1951). Clonal development of the slime mold, Dictyostelium mucoroides. Bact. Proc.
	
Sussman, M. (1951). "The origin of cellular heterogeneity in the slime molds, Dictyosteliaceae." J. Exp. Zool. 118: 407-418.
	
Raper, K. B. (1951). "Isolation, cultivation, and conservation of simple slime molds." Quart. Rev. Biol. 26: 169-190.
	
Hirschberg, E. and H. P. Rusch (1951). "Effect of 2,4-dinitrophenol on the differentiation of the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell. Compar. Physiol. 37: 323-336.
	
Raper, K. B. (1950). "Stalk formation in Dictyostelium." Science 112: 450.
	
Pinoy, P. E. (1950). "Quelques observations sur la culture d'une Acrasiee." Bull. Soc. Mycol. France 66: 37-38.
	
Pfutzner-Eckert, R. (1950). "Entwicklungsphysiologische untersuchungen an Dictyostelium mucoroides Brefeld." W.R. Arch. Entw. Mech. Org. 144: 381-409.
	
Hirschberg, E. and H. P. Rusch (1950). "Effects of compounds of varied biochemical action on the aggregation of a slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell. Compar. Physiol. 36: 105-113.
	
Hirschberg, E. (1950). Nutritional and biochemical studies with Dictyostelium discoideum. Madison, WI, The University of Wisconsin - Madison.
	
Gregg, J. H. (1950). "Oxygen utilization in relation to growth and morphogenesis of the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Exp. Zool. 114: 173-195.
	
Bonner, J. T., et al. (1950). "The orientation to light and the extremely sensitive orientation to temperature gradients in the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Cell. Compar. Physiol. 36: 149-158.
	
Bonner, J. T. (1950). "Observations on polarity in the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Biol. Bull. 99: 143-151.
	
Kitzke, E. D. (1949). "Some ecological aspects of the Acrasiales in and near Madison, Wisconsin." Papers Mich. Acad. Sci. Arts Lett. 35: 25-32.
	
Gregg, J. H. (1949). The rate of oxygen consumption of the slime mold, Dictyostelium discoideum during the growth and morphogenetic stages. Princeton, NJ, Princeton University.
	
Bonner, J. T. and M. K. Slifkin (1949). "A study of the control of differentiation: The proportions of stalk and spore cells in the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Am. J. Bot. 36: 727-734.
	
Bonner, J. T. (1949). "The social amoebae." Scientific Am. 180 (June): 44-47.
	
Bonner, J. T. (1949). "The demonstration of acrasin in the later stages of the development of the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Exp. Zool. 110: 259-271.
	
Kitzke, E. D. (1948). "Two members of the Acrasieae isolated in Milwaukee County, Wisconsin." Papers Mich. Acad. Sci. Arts Lett. 34: 13-18.
	
Bonner, J. T. (1948). A study of the formation and organization of cell aggregates in the development of the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum. Cambridge, MA, Harvard University.
	
Singh, B. N. (1947). "Studies on soil Acrasieae. 1. Distribution of species of Dictyostelium in soils of Great Britain and the effect of bacteria on their development." J. Gen. Microbiol. 1: 11-21.
	
Singh, B. N. (1947). "Studies on soil Acrasieae. 2. The active life of species of Dictyostelium in soil and the influence thereon of soil moisture and bacterial food." J. Gen. Microbiol. 1: 361-367.
	
Bonner, J. T. (1947). "Evidence for the formation of cell aggregates by chemotaxis in the development of the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Exp. Zool. 106: 1-26.
	
Singh, B. N. (1946). "Soil acrasieae and their bacterial food supply." Nature 157: 133-134.
	
Bonner, J. T. and D. Eldredge Jr (1945). "A note on the rate of morphogenetic movement in the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Growth 9: 287-297.
	
Bonner, J. T. (1944). "A descriptive study of the development of the slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum." Am. J. Bot. 31: 175-182.
	
Runyon, E. H. (1942). Aggregation of separate cells of Dictyostelium to form a multicellular body. The Collecting Net (Woods Hole, Mass.).
	
Raper, K. B. and C. Thom (1941). "Interspecific mixtures in the Dictyosteliaceae." Am. J. Bot. 28: 69-78.
	
Raper, K. B. (1941). "Developmental patterns in simple slime molds." Growth 5 (Suppl.): 41-76.
	
Raper, K. B. (1941). "Dictyostelium minutum, a second new species of slime mold from decaying forest leaves." Mycologia 33: 633-649.
	
Raper, K. B. (1940). "Pseudoplasmodium formation and organization in Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Elisha Mitchell Sci. Soc. 56: 241-282.
	
Raper, K. B. (1940). "The communal nature of the fruiting process in the Acrasieae." Am. J. Bot. 27: 436-448.
	
Raper, K. B. and N. R. Smith (1939). "The growth of Dictyostelium discoideum on pathogenic bacteria." J. Bacteriol. 38: 431-444.
	
Raper, K. B. (1939). "Influence of culture conditions upon the growth and development of Dictyostelium discoideum." J. Agr. Res. 58: 157-198.
	
Michalska, J. and F. X. Skupienski (1939). "Recherches ecologigue sur les acrasiees Polysphondylium pallidum Olive, Polysphondylium violaceum Bref, Dictyostelium mucoroides Bref." C.R. Acad. Sc. Paris 207: 1239-1241.
	
Cook, W. R. I. (1939). "Some observations on Sappinia pedata dang." Trans. Br. Mycol. Soc. 22: 302-306.
	
Raper, K. B. (1937). "Growth and development of Dictyostelium discoideum with different bacterial associates." J. Agr. Res. 55: 289-316.
	
Pinoy, P. E. (1937). "Quelques observations sur la culture d'une Acrasiee." Ann. Sci. Nat. Bot. 19: 421-422.
	
Arndt, A. (1937). "Rhizopodenstudien III. Untersuchungen uber Dictyostelium mucoroides Brefeld." W.R. Arch. Entw. Mech. Org. 136: 681-744.
	
Raper, K. B. (1936). The influence of the bacterial associate and of the medium upon the growth and development of Dictyostelium discoideum. Cambridge, MA, Harvard University. 22.
	
Raper, K. B. (1935). "Dictyostelium discoideum, a new species of slime mold from decaying forest leaves." J. Agr. Res. 50: 135-147.
	
Palm, B. T. (1935). "Ett fynd av Dictyostelium mucoroides i Sydsverige." Svensk Botanisk Tidskrift 29: 365-366.
	
Raper, K. B. and C. Thom (1932). "The distribution of Dictyostelium and other slime molds in soil." J. Wash. Acad. Sci. 22: 93-96.
	
Harper, R. A. (1932). "Organization and light relations in Polysphondylium." Bull. Torrey Bot. Club 59: 49-84.
	
Thom, C. and K. B. Raper (1930). "Myxamoebae in soil and decomposing crop residues." J. Wash. Acad. Sci. 20: 362-370.
	
Harper, B. A. (1929). "Morphogenesis in Polysphondylium." Bull. Torrey Bot. Club 56: 227-258.
	
Krzemieniewski, H. and S. Krzemieniewski (1927). "Z mikroflory gleby w Polsce (contribution a la microflore du sol en Pologne)." Acta Soc. Bot. Poloniae 4: 141-144.
	
Harper, R. A. (1926). "Morphogenesis in Dictyostelium." Bull. Torrey Bot. Club 53: 229-268.
	
von Schuckmann, W. (1925). "Zur morphologie und Biologie von Dictyostelium mucoroides, Bref." Arch. Protistenk. 51: 495-529.
	
von Schuckmann, W. (1924). "Zur Biologie von Dictyostelium mucoroides Bref." Centralbl. Bakteriol. Parasitenk. 91: 302-309.
	
Oehler, R. (1922). "Dictyostelium mucoroides (Brefeld)." Zentralbl. Bakteriol. Parasitenk. 89: 155-156.
	
Skupienski, F. X. (1920). Recherches sur le cycle evolutif de certains Myxomycetes. Paris (France), L'Universite de Paris: 81.
	
Skupienski, F. X. (1919). "Sur la sexualite chez une espece de myxomycete acrasiee, Dictyostelium mucoroides." C.R. Acad. Sc. Paris 167: 960-962.
	
Chatton, E. (1912). "Entamibe (Loeschia sp.) et myxomycete (Dictyostelium mucoroides Brefeld) d'un singe." Bull. Soc. Path. Exot. 5: 180-183.
	
Harper, R. A. (1908). The organization of certain coenobic plants: address of the retiring president - Robert Almer Harper. Madison, WI, Bot. Soc. America.
	
Pinoy, E. (1907). "Role des bacteries dans le developpement de certains Myxomycetes." Ann. Inst. Pasteur Paris 21: 622-656;686-700.
	
Vuillemin, P. (1903). "Une Acrasiee bacteriophage." C.R. Acad. Sc. Paris 137: 387-389.
	
Pinoy, E. (1903). "Necessite d'une symbiose microbienne pour obtenir la culture des Myxomycetes." C. R. Acad. Sci. Paris 137: 580-581.
	
Potts, G. (1902). "Zur Physiologie des Dictyostelium mucoroides." Flora (Jena) 91: 281-347.
	
Olive, E. W. (1902). "Monograph of the Acrasieae." Proc. Boston Soc. Natur. Hist. 30: 451-513.
	
Olive, E. W. (1901). "A preliminary enumeration of the Sorophoreae." Proc. Am. Acad. Arts Sci. 37: 333-344.
	
Shibata, K. (1900). Polysphondylium violaceum Brefeld. Sinsen nippon shokubutsu zusetsu katoinkaruibu. (New Japanese Plant Illustrations - Lower Plants). J. Matsumura and M. Miyoshi. Tokyo, Keigyosha: Pl. 39.
	
Nadson, G. A. (1899/1900). "Des cultures du Dictyostelium mucoroides Bref. et des cultures pures des amibes en general." Scripta Bot. Horti Univ. Imp. Petropolitanae 15: 188-190.
	
Shibata, K. (1899). "Polysphondylium violaceum Brefeld found in Japan." Bot. Mag. Tokyo 13: 342-343.
	
Dangeard, P. A. (1896). "Contribution a l'etude des Acrasiees." Le Botaniste 5: 1-20.
	
Grimm, M. (1895). "Uber den Bau und die Entwicklungsgeschichte von Dictyostelium mucoroides Bref." Script. Bot. Hort. Univ. Imp. Petersburg 4: 279-298.
	
Oudemans, C. A. J. A. (1885/1886). "Hyalostilbum sphaerocephalum." Nederlandsch Kruidkundig Archief Tweede Serie, 4e Deel: 241-242 (pl. IV).
	
Zopf, W. (1885). Die Pilzthiere oder Schleimpilze. Nach dem neuesten Standpunkte bearbeitet. Breslau, Eduard Trewendt.
	
Marchal, E. (1885). "Champignons Coprophiles de Belgique. Dictyostelium sphaerocephalum." Bull. Soc. Roy. Bot. Belg. 24: 74 (pl.III).
	
van Tieghem, M. P. h. (1884). "Coenonia, genre nouveau de Myxomycetes a plasmode agrege." Bull. Soc. Bot. Fr. 31: 303-306.
	
Brefeld, O. (1884). "Polysphondylium violaceum und Dictyostelium mucoroides nebst Bemerkungen zur Systematik der Schleimpilze." Untersuchungen aus dem Gesammtgebiete der Mykologie 6: 1-34.
	
Fayod, V. (1883). " Beitrag zur Kenntniss niederer Myxomyceten." Botan. Zeitung 41: 169-177.
	
van Tieghem, M. P. h. (1880). "Sur quelques Myxomycetes a plasmode agrege." Bull. Soc. Bot. Fr. 27: 317-322.
	
Cienkowsky, L. (1873). Guttulina rosea. Trans. Bot. Sect. 4th Meeting Russian Naturalists at Kazan.
	
Brefeld, O. (1869). "Dictyostelium mucoroides. Ein neuer Organismus aus der Verwandtschaft der Myxomyceten." Abhandlungen der Senckenbergischen Naturforschenden Gesellschaft Frankfurt 7: 85-107.
	
Stephenson, S. L., et al. Methods for collecting eumycetozoan substrates in the field. Website: 1-20.
	
Raper, K. B. "Kenneth B. Raper papers 1925-1986."
	
